# 2020-02-21

Smattering of topics today:

## Part selection

As it turns out, the *only* iCE40 HX part that could work for me is the
`ICE40HX8k-CT256` (which happens to be the one on the eval board), because I
need a lot (>150) of IO, and none of the other HX varieties can handle that
many. The ECP5 line starts at about the size that the HX line stops, so I can
get the same package, but with a much bigger FPGA inside. I'm not going to even
try a higher pin-count package -- hand-soldering a BGA is challenge enough.

The biggest problem here is that the ECP5 needs *four* different voltages:
3.3V, 2.5V, 1.5V, and 1.2V. It also takes a huge amount of power -- the eval
board schematic says something like 4.9 A total -- and needs two fairly
complicated regulators whose datasheet have a dozen or so components laid out
around them. I can plausibly ignore this early on with a
sufficiently-complicated bench supply, which is then more expensive. Perhaps I
can get JLCPCB's SMT service to just install all the bits; looks like they're
all 0805 and 0402 parts, which JLCPCB will do.

For the actual ECP5 chip, the most likely part number is `LFE5U-45F-6BG256C`,
which is $15.86 at the moment. That's:

*   `LFE5U`: Lattice ECP5 part family, without SERDES
*   `45F`: 45k LUTS. 85k LUTS are only in bigger packages.
*   `6`: "Slow", although probably irrelevantly so for my usecase.
*   `BG256`: 256-ball caBGA, 0.8mm ball pitch.
*   `C`: Commerical grade; `I` Industrial grade has a wider temperature range.

I could also pick the `-25F-` ($9.29) or `-12F-` ($6.57), but I really badly
want the larger block ram (it's proportional to LUTs). [Project
Trellis](https://github.com/SymbiFLow/prjtrellis) has obvious support for the
`-45F-` and `-25F-` only, so this should work fine. Only concern is that I
might wreck a bunch of part before getting the reflow process right -- it's
probably wise to buy some dummy 0.8mm-pitch 14x14 BGAs and a prototyping board
to practice with.

## Level Converters

SparkFun has [a "Logic Level Convertor"
board](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/12009) which basically is a four-pack
of `BSS138` N-channel mosfets with pullup resistors. But, they don't say what
frequency you can push through it, which I expect is low -- the original
Phillips datasheet for this circuit (AN97055) is designed for I2C level
conversion, at max 400kbps. Not workable for me.

Another possibility: The 74LVC245 is an 8-bit 3.3V to 5V level shifter, but
requires explicit directional control. That's probably fine for my purposes,
since the FPGA knows which direction it ought to be, and I ought to have enough
extra pins (especially since I can hardwire some of them, and gang together
several others). The datasheet says this switches (A-to-B or B-to-A) in max
6.3ns, which is ~158 MHz, not counting delays for other traces -- but that's
still probably good enough over 21.4 MHz to work fine. Direction / Output
Enable switches are slightly slower, 8.5ns, which is ~118 MHz -- still good
enough.

Also, there's several varieties in the JLCPCB-SMT catalog; notably the
`74LVC245ABQ` is in a nicely tiny package, so it won't make the traces too much
longer. I'll need 8 of these for RW signals (assuming I want to write to the
VRAM chips directly), and some other solution for the unidirectional. If I just
use these chips for everything, I'll need 17 of them. There's also a 16-bit
version to consider, but the package is bigger.

## FT600Q/FT601Q

Kor found a new(ish) FTDI chip that handles USB SuperSpeed with a dead-simple
32-bit wide FIFO interface, similar to the synchronous fifo mode on the
FT2232H. Spiffy!

The big disadvantage here, however, is that it *only* has a fifo interface;
none of the GPIO / SPI configurability I'd like to have from the chip. For a
more "real" application, I'd use this, but there's no obviously good way to
program the FPGA or its SPI chip. So, for a more "real" application, I could
add some hacky debug headers to load the SPI chip, and not worry about
reloading over USB. Not worrying about this for now; maybe in a later rev of
the board.

Technically it has 2 GPIO pins, which are also used for early power-on
configuration. I'm not sure where the config is stored; presumably there's some
onboard flash not mentioned elsewhere. This datasheet seems less explicit than
FTDI's others (which in fairness aren't stellar themselves).

## ECP5 Eval Board Schematic Review

I don't actually have one of these, but the schematic is reasonable:

*   Page 3: USB interface. I'm also using the FT2232H, but differently.
    They're using JTAG for programming, which is icky and slow, so I'll figure
    that out myself.
*   Page 4: Arduino header. Ignore.
*   Page 5: Raspberry Pi header. Ignore.
*   Page 6: SERDES SMA. I'm not using the ECP5-5G, so Ignore.
*   Page 7: IO Breakout. Ignore.
*   Page 8: IO Breakout. Mostly ignore, but has the 50MHz crystal oscillator.
*   Page 9: Configuration. They're using a 128Mb SPI Flash chip, which is easy
    enough, but the config setup is a little weird here. Need to refer to the
    datasheet, and decide how I want to program the thing. If it's fast
    enough, it's ok to have the host software write the full image on each
    power-on. I can probably omit the SPI Flash entirely, in that case.
*   Page 10: Power decoupling. Holy heck this needs a lot of decoupling
    capacitors.
*   Page 11: Power Hookup. I can omit the LEDs for power, and all my IO banks
    will use 3.3v only. Probably I should route that through jumpers though,
    just to have the flexibility. Omit the funny jumpers and 0-ohm resistors.
*   Page 12: Power Regulators. This is the big part. I can drop the SERDES
    parts, but I still need both `LT3508EUF` regulators and their passives. This
    looks like they borrowed most of it from that part's datasheet, and I'll
    probably do the same (and also the part sizes).

They also include the bill of materials, so I can get exact matches on the parts
(where JLCPCB has them, which for most they will).

Overall, this isn't overwhelming; just that the power regulators are
complicated, and the config loading needs figuring out. Workable.
