# 2020-08-05

So, a problem:  The current in-progress `bringup_vram` image 1) doesn't work, and 2) causes abnormally high power usage (~5W), which heats up the chip to unacceptable temperatures (>85C) way too fast (~60s).  Something is bizarrely wrong.

Also, the voltage reported is really low, which is surprising.

## Lab Notes

Idle (fpga reset): 140mA / 1.682W / 33C

Toggle states every 60s.
Always drive vram chip enables high (ie, vram chips don't drive data pins)

`bringup_vram_trivial`
* LED8 / input mode: 200mA / 2.4W / 43C
* LED7 / output mode: 90mA / 1.08W / 38C

`bringup_vram_trivial` with directions inverted
* LED8 / input mode: 90mA / 1.08W / 35C
* LED7 / output mode: HOLY SHIT 10W / ? / >80C quickly

always output, but toggle values
* LED8 / input mode: 90mA / 1.08W / 33C
* LED7 / output mode: 90ma / 1.08W / 33C

stable.  toggle values faster (every 3 sec)

Try toggling values quickly (100kHz).  Measured 100mA / 1.2W / 32C. Ok.

(Side note: scope was stuck in 1x mode, which explains the weirdly low signal levels.  Fixed now).

Signals appear fine, ish.  However, `VDA` / `VDB` signals don't appear, when I expect that they should.

Try explicit output pins for `VD[AB]` (ie, not using bidir pins).  Signals appear on VRAM chip pins, as they should.  Measured at: 100mA / 1.2W / 32C.

(Side note: found a dumb mistake in `clock_div.v`, now fixed).

Theory: the driving states of `bringup_vram` are wrong.  In any case, it shouldn't be possible (in the RTL) to drive the state incorrectly, ie, mismatched between FPGA pins / level shifters / VRAM chips.  Hopefully I can just fix that and all will be well.  I'm not convinced that my RTL for the bidirectional pins is correct.

Try driving reads: `VRD_N=0`, `LVL_VD_DIR=0`, `VDA` inputs.  Power usage nominal, but hard to tell because I don't know what data's in the chip at power-on (indeterminate, I expect).  Seems ok?

New plan: Build an image that explicitly runs through the address space writing, and the repeats with reading.

Hm, discovery: `cells_io.v` in the tech library has mappings for bidirectional `TRELLIS_IO` modules with various pull modes -- not sure that the default is "none".

So, `bringup_vram_scan` does the writing and reading scan, and compares values with the expected.  This *seems* to work, but I'm not very sure.

* Reading measurement: 180mA / 2.16W / 48C
* Writing measurement: 100ma / 1.2W / 35C

Weird that reading is power-expensive -- this implies that I've got something wrong with the drivers somehow.  I might need to experiment with the testpoints.

