# 2020-06-28

New development: If I *just* load the `bringup_boundary` image, I can see the 100kHz driver signal on `TP9` -- but it disappears after a second or two.  I'd thought this was when the host software starts polling the FTDI UART output -- but even if I disable that (by returning immediately after loading the bitstream), it still disappears.  Probably this is something to do with the FTDI chip power settings somehow?  Or, I've got some short on the second board that isn't on the first one.

I don't know if all this is related to the `FFIO_WR_N` pin problems, but it might be.

Yes, this defintely doesn't happen on the first board.  There's still some hiccups on a ~1s cycle, but that seems to be a sampling artifact; the frequency changes when I rescale.  [SDS00022]

Possibilities:

* EEPROM configuration could be different (unlikely).
* Short with `PWREN` / `SUSPEND` pins.

I still don't know why the `bringup_boundary` scan still works even when the pin's shut off.  It starts back up when I connect things, but has a weird trapezoidal shape.  [SDS00023] The shape different when I'm sample the LEDs -- likely because they have non-trivial current draw. [SDS00024]  Connecting to `D3` doesn't cause this issue.

I might have a short on the 3.3V IO bank power somehow, or possibly on the core clock -- and it wakes up again because it can absorb enough power from the IO pin to start working again? very unlikely I think.

Check on the `PWREN` / `SUSPEND` pins by wiring them to the LEDs.  Looks like `PWREN_N` is low (ie, "power is enabled"), and `SUSPEND_N` is high (ie, "not suspended").  This doesn't change when the board crashes, so that

Slowing down the signal to 10 kHz means it doesn't even get all the way to 0V; just down to 2.54V.  [SDS00026]  Connecting to TP7 (or any pin) also does weird things. [SDS00027]  Slowing down to 1 kHz causes the same thing.

Theory: The nearby ground pins aren't connected, so when the pad driver transisitors connect the signal to ground, it doesn't actually drop to ground, and only drops slowly through parasitic leakage.  Core power is ok, so it keeps working -- but appears to stop, since the 100 kHz signal is too fast for any substantial drop to happen.  This doesn't explain why the chip is ok for a few seconds, and then collapses -- possibly there's an accidental RC circuit involved with the decoupling capacitors, and once they're drained the signal collapses.

