# 2020-05-15

# FTDI 1.8V power

I had some ideas last night about how to fix the 1.8V rail, including dead-bug soldering a larger LDO and using some of my freebie 1% THT resistors to make a voltage divider.  This is a huge pain.

So, first thing I tried instead, was increasing the current limit, but that's not it -- if I hit the current limit, the voltage will collapse, which it didn't.

I fiddled around with a multimeter this morning, and didn't find anything interesting -- then suddenly the `VREGOUT` pin showed ~1.8V, which is good!  But the other power pins were still 0V.  Weird.

Some more probing messed up the state of the chip.  Normally it seems to draw 0.360W (12V / ~30mA), including the upstream power regulators, but I've seen it get confused and alternate between 0W and 0.120W.  This might not mean anything; I suspect the bench supply isn't accurate for very low currents (<100mA)

Maybe the chip needed to cool down for the internal LDO to function properly?

Now suddenly it's working and I don't know why.  Possibly there's a dodgy solder connection, and everything is fine otherwise?

I'm not sure what the initial state of the FTDI pins is, but for reference:

* D3 (test): off
* D4 `PROGRAM`: on
* D5 `DONE`: on
* D6 `INIT`: on, but dim.  Possibly this is floating

After resetting (via pulling 3.3V power jumper), it's stuck again:

* D3/D3/D5: off
* D6: dim

A few more resets toggle between these states randomly.

I've also observed:

* D3/D4/D5/D6: off

and

* D4 `PROGRAM`: on
* D6 `INIT` dim

Theories:
* I've hooked up the internal LDO totally wrong.
* There's a flaky solder joint somewhere.
* `C7` is bad (Pin reads 1.8V, but corresponding pad on `C7` shows 0V).
* Everything is fine, and the FTDI chip has indeterminate startup state, and I've just temporarily borked the LDO by probing badly.

I can also see a blip on the 1.8V power pin (when it's working) at some kHz. [SDS00014, SDS00015].  Other power pins are zero.

Still very mysterious.
