# 2020-02-16

Started experimenting with KiCad, and drew some partial crummy schematics.  For
now, I'm mostly duplicating what the HX8K dev board and FT2232HL datasheets
do, with some minor exceptions:  The FT2232HL datasheet recommends an LC
(inductor-capacitor) filter on the VPHY and VPLL inputs, to stabilize the PLL
-- but the HX8K dev board just has some decoupling capacitors, so that's maybe
sufficient.

The bigger problem here is part selection.  The big parts are kinda simple in
concept, but figuring out which exactly to choose is hard.  I don't have
constraints on cost -- the parts are cheap enough in single quantities -- but I
don't have good intuition on how hard it is to manually solder these things.
THT (Through-hole) is easy; surface-mount is trickier.  Nate mention that
0603-sized resistor/capacitor parts are doable manually, but smaller is a pain.
TFQP parts are probably ok, because I can just dump a bunch of flux and solder
on, and wick off the rest.  For BGA, it's hard to do without a solder-reflow
oven, which is probably too expensive to be worth it for a one-off ($250 - $450).

Sockets are annoying for QFP-100 (20x30x20x30), and are obsolete and pretty
much impossible to get.  I could build a breakout board for the PPU chips, at
the cost of chunky traces for the high(er) speed signals.  Not great.  Probably
it's better to just solder the things directly to the board, and hope not to
screw it up too many times.

Desoldering the PPU chips might be a huge pain, but that's something to
discover the hard way.

I also probably want to be able to control the CRAM / SPI EEPROM programming
mode electronically (ie, without swapping jumpers all the time), and to
control the power to the PPU chips as well.  For this stuff it's harmless to
have jumpers to configure manually as well; I'll need to actually decide this
stuff and write it down.

The SRAM in most FPGAs is registered, so probably I can't use it to replace
the VRAM chips.  On the other hand, I'll get these for free with the SNES's, so
maybe it's wise to just use them.  Possibly I'll also want to be able to drive
these directly, and hold the PPU chips in reset.

Partial shopping list:
*   Soldering station, with temperature control and fine-point tips.
*   Solder fume handling thing (either vent outdoors, or filtering).
*   Heat gun.
*   Solder (leaded or lead-free? eesh.), fine 0.5mm.
*   Flux pen.
*   Solder wick braid.
*   Some kind of thermal-protective surface for the table.
*   Captan tape (or something similar).
*   Handy-hand grabber thingys.
*   Cheap (trinocular) electronics microscope?  Not sure if needed yet.
*   Electronics tweezers.
*   Bodge wires (which might be small).

Shopping list of stuff that has to wait for a finished board design:
*   2 or more used SNES from E-Bay (one to cannablize, and one to hook up to a
    scope for comparison).
*   PCB (likely from JLPCB), possibly with small parts pre-installed.
*   Digital oscilloscope (if not borrowing from Kor).
*   Cheap multimeter.  Really only need this for connectivity testing etc.
*   Stuff from Digikey:
    *   Some FPGA of reasonable size and packaging (ICE40 HX or ECP), and
        supporting chips:
        *   Big EEPROM, for holding FPGA bitstream.
    *   Some USB interface chip (probably FT2232HL), and supporting chips:
        *   Some CMOS oscillator (likely 12 MHz).
        *   Small EEPROM, as recommended by FTDI datasheet.
    *   Voltage regulator chips, probably LDO 5V to 3.3V / 1.8V / 1.2V.
        *   5V from USB directly, with decoupling capacitors
        *   3.3V to drive FTDI and FPGA
        *   1.8V for FTDI internal core.
        *   1.2V for FPGA I think.
    *   Some voltage shifter stuff.  Not sure about this yet.
    *   Bunch of surface-mount LEDs.
    *   Bunch of 0.1-pitch headers and jumpers.
*   Standoffs and feet for the board.
