# 2020-03-01

To get the PCB layout to not be entirely bonkers, I'll need to layout the
schematic (particularly the FPGA and level shifter pinouts) to avoid crossing
signals all the time.  I'm planning for a 4-layer PCB
(signal/power/ground/signal), which might be just barely enough, if I can sneak
a few extra lines through the middle layers -- but I might need to upgrade to
6-layer (signal/power/signal/signal/ground/signal).  Let's see if we can get a
4-layer working.

The SNES chips are the central point, but they need to be arranged so that the
FPGA has decent routing to all of them.  I'm going to ignore JLCPCB-SMT
limitations for now (single-sided assembly in particular), and I'll hand-solder
everything if I have to.

Looking at the SNES chips in `pcbnew` turns out to be handy -- it's much easier
to visualize the physical pinout (Assuming I've got the right package, but I
suspect QFP parts are typically laid out this way anyhow).

The SNES chips are deliberately designed with a convenient pinout, with pins
counter-clockwise from pin 1 in northwest:

*   PPU1
    *   West Side (1-30)
        *   Peripheral control bus (`~PARD`, `~PAWR`)
        *   Peripheral address bus (`PA[7..0]`)
        *   Peripheral data bus (`D[7..0]`)
        *   PPU1 Misc (`HVCMODE`, `PALMODE`, `~MASTER`, `~EXTSYNC`)
        *   Part of B-side VRAM data bus (`VDB[0..2]`)
    *   South Side (31-49)
        *   Rest of B-side VRAM data bus (`VDB[3..7`)
        *   A-side VRAM data bus (`VDA[0..7]`)
        *   `VA14`, which is shared between both VRAM chips
        *   Part of B-side VRAM address bus (`VA14`, `VAB[13..11]`)
    *   East Side (50 - 79)
        *   Rest of B-side VRAM address bus (`VAB[10..0]`)
        *   A-side VRAM address bus (`VAA[13..0]`)
        *   VRAM control bus (`~VAWR`, `~VBWR`, `~VRD`)
    *   North Side (80 - 100)
        *   Inter-PPU bus (`CHR[3..0]`, `PRIO[10]`, `~VCLD`, `~HCLD`, `~5MOUT`, `~OVER`, `FIELD`, `~5MIN`)
        *   Reset (`~RESET`)
        *   Clock (`XIN`)
*   PPU2
    *   West Side (1-30)
        *   Analog sync (`~BURST`)
        *   PPU2 Misc (`~PED`, `3.58M`, `~TOUMEI`)
        *   Peripheral control bus (`~PARD`, `~PAWR`)
        *   Peripheral data bus (`D[7..0]`)
        *   Peripheral address bus (`PA[7..0]`)
        *   PPU2 Misc (`HBLANK`, `VBLANK`, `EXTLATCH`, `PALMODE`)
    *   South Side (31-49)
        *   Clock (`XIN`)
        *   Reset (`~RESOUT0`, `~RESET`)
        *   Inter-PPU Bus (`FIELD`, `~OVER1`, `~5MIN`, `~HCLD`, `~VCLD`, `COLOR[0..2]`, `PRIO[01]`, `CHR[0..3]`)
    *   East Side (50-79)
        *   End of Inter-PPU Bus (`~OVER2`)
        *   B-side VRAM data bus (`VDB[0..7]`)
        *   A-side VRAM data bus (`VDA[0..7]`)
        *   EXT bus (`EXT[0..7]`), which is mysteriously hooked up to `VDB`
        *   NC test pins (`TST[0..2]`)
    *   North Side (80 - 100)
        *   NC test pins (`TST[3..15]`)
        *   Analog power (`AVCC`)
        *   Analog outputs (`R`, `G`, `B`)
        *   PPU2 Misc (`HVCMODE`)
        *   Analog sync (`~CSYNC`)

If we arrange PPU2 north of PPU1, both in the same orientation, this has a few
interestingly useful properties:

*   Analog outputs (sync and rgb) are all in the northwest corner of PPU2.
*   The peripheral bus is all on the west sides, with the data bus towards the
    center and the address bus and control bus towards the outside.  This is
    convenient to avoid overlapping lanes, but I'll have to route them a bit
    longer around the level shifters chip.
*   Clock and reset are both in the inside west corners -- but this traps them
    behind the peripheral bus lanes.
*   The Inter-PPU bus is neatly arranged between the two chips, in the same
    order (except for `~OVER[12]`).
*   The VRAM address bus is mostly on the south and east sides of PPU1, but
    the data bus is further apart, with the B-side on the southwest of PPU1 and
    northeast of PPU2, and the A-side on the east of PPU2 and south of PPU1.
    Like the peripheral bus, this splits nicely around the VRAM chips.
*   The "misc" signals are all over, so it doesn't make sense to put them on
    one level shifter chip.
*   It's almost certainly not worth it to use the level shifter's `OE` pin,
    just because it's such a pain to route the extra signals.  Maybe just wire
    this to "on" and forget about it.  As long as this works when power is
    unstable, it's fine.

However, the VRAM chip pinout is generic, and decidedly *not* convenient.
The actual SNES board uses a bunch of vias to make this work.

Overall, this seems like it'll work out fairly simply, if I can rearrange the
level shifter chips to fit in convenient places.  But, I still need to route
all the lines from them to the FPGA -- which will either have to be fairly
distant from the signals (not ideal), or bluntly in the center, in the middle
of the four SNES chips.  If I can route almost all of the SNES signals on one
layer, it's possible to add vias for the level shifters, and route signals to
the FPGA on the bottom layer.

North of the PPU's will be the Analog section, so that's taken up, but otherwise
the remaining layout is flexible.  I do want the FTDI FIFO bus to be as close
to the FPGA as possible, and with length-matched lanes, since that's 60 MHz and
bidirectional -- which makes it hard to arrange if the FPGA is dead-center.
Might still work out, though, if the level shifters aren't too much in the way.
Power can go wherever, so long as I have the entire power plane broken up
reasonably.  I'll want the jumper pin banks to be on the top of the board, but
that's trivial since they have to be through-hole anyways.

The original SNES board is two-layer I think -- but I need to shove in a bunch
of extra signals and chips. If I use a a 6-layer board, this all gets way easier.
