# 2020-05-13

# Bringup Stage 1: Power

First mishap: When they say "breakaway headers", they mean it. The first one went flying across the room, and I haven't found a good technique for cutting the two-row headers without busting a pin pair half the time. Possibly I need more fine cutters; these cheapie ones barely fit between the pins. I did keep the loose pins, though, supposing they're useful for something.

## Detailed steps

* Manually soldered on power barrel jack. This worked, but is ugly.

* Manually soldered on USB plug. This worked much less well:
  * The board is thick enough that the mounting pins barely stick through. I needed a prop to hold it in place, more than just kapton tape, so I rested it on a screwdriver. In the future, do this part first, so it can stil on the table.
  * The pads for the pins are really too small to do with a soldering iron; I screwed this up a few times and had to solderwick it away. However, I tested it with a cut-off USB cable and a multimeter, and it's connected at least.

* Lesson learned: small parts first.


* First batch of parts:
  * R82/R92: 1k 1%
  * R87/R88/R97/R98: 0 ohm
  * C83/C93: 4.7uF
  * U7/U7: ST1S10
  * The `ST1S10` is a "Power SO-8" package, and has no obvious pin 1 marking. Turns out the front endge (pins 1-4) is inclined more, which is the indicator.

Soldering this by hand is a huge pain. Switching to solder paste.

* More parts:
  * C81/C91: 10uF
   * I've got these is `0604` and `0805`, and I don't remember why. Not sure
    I used the right package, but I've got extras.
  * L1/L2
  * R81: 5.23k
  * R91: 3.09k
  * C84/C94: 4.7nF
  * C89/C99: 0.1uF
  * C82/C92: 22uF
  * R96: 330
  * D1/D2

Used Hot air here. Worked ok, but a few parts (notably the LEDs) had too much paste and didn't sit flat, and I had to hurriedly tweak a few that didn't stay in the right places. A stencil would fix all this, I think.

Also, I forgot:
* R86: 750

I'll probably need to do the 1.1V / 2.5V regulators before the pinheaders, since there's not much space.

* Third batch:
  * D7/D8
  * R27/R26: 330
  * R33/R34: 0
  * C41/C42: 0.1uF
  * U9: tlv33 2.5V
  * U14: tlv33 1.1V

Tweaked a few pins with soldering iron; wasn't totally sure they were connected. Probably the solder wicked underneath, where it's not visible, but better safe than sorry.

Soldered in pinheaders (2x8 and 2x2) with larger solder (0.8mm). Worked ok, but I tried to tape them in place when flipping the board, which left the 2x8 slightly crooked. Not enough to bother with fixing, but mildly annoying.

Powered up with bench supply, hooked up to pigtail power adapter, voltage set to 12.001V (it's tricky to adjust accurately). Also set current limit to a tad above zero, just to be safe.

No magic smoke! `D1` and `D2` are lit! Shock! I honestly didn't expect this to work the first time.

Check voltages with multimeter:

* 3.3V regulator reads at 3.254V (1.39% below nominal)
* 5.0V regulator reads at 4.952V (0.96% below nominal)

Close enough! It's probably low because the parts aren't quite perfect. I could fix this probably with different resistors for the voltage divider, but it's not worth the effort.

I did short something while probing, which buzzed weirdly -- probably the 5V regulator, but it seems fine now, and I'm not tempted to go messing with it.

Add jumpers for 1.1V and 2.5V LDOs, and check with multimeter:

* 1.1V LDO reads at 1.100V (nominal)
* 2.5V LDO reads at 2.497V (0.12% below nominal)

Board ended up getting a bit gunky from the solder paste -- but cleaning it with isopropyl alcohol didn't really work too well, because it's hard to remove the gunk before the isopropyl alcohol evaporates.

# Summary

I am more than a little shocked that this worked the first time, and I didn't blow anything up. Note that that's still possible, since there's no current limiting in these power systems, and a short elsewhere could dump a lot of current through it. As long as I have the bench supply powering it, it's probably fine.

Next step: FTDI chip -- which will require some software munging, probably.
