# 2020-02-28

The power supply continues to be an ambiguous problem. I've got a couple ideas,
but not very many good ones.

General architecture that I've settled on is to have a single 10V-12V input,
with two step-down regulators to 5V and 3.3V.  From there I can use an LDO from
3.3V to 2.5V and 1.1V easily enough.  Alternatively, I can have a 5V input
directly, and step down from there.

Switching Linear Regulator: More complicated, generally needs an inductor, has
switching noise to deal with, but much more efficient (read: less heat).
All of these need an inductor for filtering / energy storage, which is the hard
part.

*   `ST1S10`: Nate's suggestion, with example schematic.
    *   Output current: Up to 3A.
    *   Switching frequency: 900kHz
    *   Input voltage: 2.5V - 18V
    *   Package: DFN8, PowerSO-8.
    *   JLCPCB-SMT: In catalog, but out of stock.

*   `LT3508EUF`: Example on both ECP5 eval boards, which also include exact
    part numbers for all the other components (including the inductors).
    Calculations might be a bit tricky to understand.
    *   Output current: 1.4A.
    *   Switching frequnecy: 250kHz - 2.5MHz.
    *   Input voltage: 3.7V - 36V.
    *   Package: QFN-24, TSSOP-16.
    *   Dual chip (fewer parts).
    *   JLCPCB-SMT: In catalog, but out of stock.

*   `MC34063`: Dave Jones of EEVBlog recommends this one, and walks through all
    the math.  Venerable; A bit like the `555`-timer of regulators.
    *   Output current: 1.5A.
    *   Switching frequency: 100kHz.
    *   Input voltage: 3V - 40V.
    *   Package: DIP-8, SO-8.
    *   JLCPCB-SMT: Yes (tons).

Low-Dropout Regulator (LDO): inefficient, but simple, and avoids ripple. Good
for small power drops.

*   `AMS1117`: Fixed voltage LDO (5V / 3.3V / 2.5V / 1.5V).
    *   Output current: 1A
    *   Input voltage: Up to 15V
    *   Output voltage: Fixed, 5V / 3.3V / 2.5V / 1.5V.
    *   Package: SOIC-8, SOT-223, TO-252
    *   JLCPCB-SMT: Yes, lots.

*   `TLV7333` / `TLV7325` / `TLV7311`: Fixed voltage LDO (3.3v / 2.5V / 1.1V),
    handles up to 300 mA -- which plausibly isn't enough.
    *   Output current: 300mA.
    *   Input voltage: 1.4V - 5.5V.
    *   Output voltage: Fixed, 3.3V / 2.5V / 1.1V
    *   Package: SOT-23, WSON-6
    *   JLCPCB-SMT: Only the `TLV73333` in stock.

*   `LM7805`: This is that the SNES actually uses for its own power regulation,
    which drops from 10V to 5V.
    *   Output current: 1A.
    *   Input voltage: Up to 35 V.
    *   Output voltage: Fixed 5V.
    *   Package: TO-220
    *   JLCPCB-SMT: No. (not surface-mount)

Given that the SNES uses an LDO for its own power, and I've no clue how
tolerant the PPU chips are to switching noise, I might have to use those for
the 5V domain at least.  However, heat dissaption is then an issue -- in theory
I can put a bunch of thermal vias to the ground plane, which helps, but not a
lot.

There's a lot of unknowns here still, and I'm not making a lot of progress
making a decision.  Another obvious solution is: ignore power entirely for the
first boards, and buy few semi-expensive bench lab supplies to get 4 channels.
