# 2020-02-29

It seems like untangling the signals in PCB layout is more of a mess than I'd
expected -- the FPGA signals are criss-crossed, sure, but the level shifters
are a much bigger problem. At the very least, grouping them by category is
completely pointless, as that doesn't match the way the pins are organized on
the actual chips.

Speaking of, the PPU chips are actually pretty sensibly designed. The
inter-PPU signals are all on one of the short edges, and fit nicely together,
with signals in the same order. Assuming those edges are adjacent, all the
periphreal bus signals are on one side of the pair of chips, with the
`PA[0..7]` signals on the inside, and the `D[0;;7]` singals on the outside, so
they don't cross either. The VRAM bus is similar, but a little more spread out
-- and the actual VRAM chips have the pins a bit scrambled, so that doesn't
help all that much.

However, fitting in all the level shifters is a huge pain. One possibility is
to put all of them of the opposite side of the board (which I'd though of doing
earlier0 -- but then it's hard to fit the FPGA into this whole mess without
having very long traces (which may or may not matter). Another idea is to put
the FPGA on one side, with the SNES chips on the other, and fit the FPGA
decoupling capacitors into the middle of the four SNES chips, spaced out a bit
to fit the level shifters.

Also notable is that the `ADBUS` is on the south side of the `FT2232H` -- which
means I'll want to reorient the FPGA and/or USB connections to make that short.
The `BDBUS` can be further, since it's less performance critial (only once on
board startup).

I'm probably going to have to ignore JLCPCB-SMT's service a bit, since I'll be
putting chips all over both sides. That might simplify the problem, since I can
do less part-matching, at the cost of doing more manual soldering -- which in
fairness, I might want to do anyways, so I can progressively bringup the board.
Also for the practice.

Also, I'll need to verify that the SNES schematic has the right pinout -- easy
enough to do with a multimeter and a lot of patience.
