# 2020-02-23

I think I've found a better power solution than copying the EPC5 eval board,
which uses two big $6 chips that JLCPCB-SMT doesn't carry. The `TPS54331DR` is
a cheap (~$.26) step-down DC converter, which takes 3.5V-28V input and
production adjustable output down to 0.8V. This *seems* like it would work
(although I need 4 of them to produce 5V/3.3V/2.5V/1.2V). The really attractive
thing about it, however, is that JLCPCB-SMT has them in their catalog, and has
a ton of them in stock (>13000) -- that implies that it's a pretty popular
part. Like any switching voltage regulator it needs a bunch of passives (6
capacitors, 5 resistors, 1 inductor, 1 shottkey diode), but a few less than the
eval board (7 capacitors, 5 resistors, 1 inductor, 2 diodes). I'd prefer a
physcially-smaller part, but it hardly matters for power, which doesn't have to
be close by. Let's try this for now.

...

Ok, that's actually a bit painful: I'll need to do a bunch of math to figure
out the right component selections. However, TI has a tool call WEBENCH to
do this (which uses only their parts, but I'm likely to do that anyways).
This led me to a solution with `TPS563201`, which is fewer parts and space.
Works all the way down to 1.2V as well.  Big disadvantage is that it needs a
big chunky inductor (which they all do, in fairness). JLCPCB-SMT has only some
in stock, the 4.7uH `MWSA1004-470SMT`.

This is all really painful. Here's an obvious and simpler solution: Get a
generic 5V wall-wart power supply, and use LDOs to drop to 1.2V/2.5V/3.3V.
This is probably way simpler to work out.  If the LDO drop is too much, go from
5V to 3.3V, and from there to 2.5V and 1.2V.

In retrospect, this is obviously the right idea.

On that idea, JLCPCB-SMT has tons of the `AMS1117`, which is fixed to a
particular output voltage, but there's lots of varieties. (Also LCSC has a
decent parametric search tool, which is awfully handy because JLCPCB-SMT
doesn't.) Also conveniently, KiCad has symbols for the 2.5v, 3.3v, and 5.0v
versions, but not the 1.2V -- but LCSC has that, so it's easy enough to
duplicate the symbol.

I might worry about routing the 5V input power directly into the SNES chips;
some isolation or filtering might be a good idea -- and it'd be nice to allow
the FPGA to control the SNES 5V power domain. After some searching, I can use
the MIC2025-1YM for that -- only 60 in stock though.  I'll also want to proide
a jumper bypass for that.

... Except that the ECP5-5G wants a 1.2V core clock, but the ECP5 wants 1.1V.
There is no `AMS1117-1.1`.  Gah.  I'll probably keep the 3.3V and 2.5V ones,
though.

... But, the `TLV733P` has versions for 1.1V as well, so that ought to work, for
all three voltages.  It also has an enable pin, which I can jumper to toy with
them, or remove them entirely.  Sadly JLCPCB-SMT only stocks the 3.3V version,
but I can order the other two from digikey and solder them on myself -- they're
SOT-23-5, which isn't too hard I think.  Also I intend to bringup the FTDI chip
first anyways, and it only needs 3.3V (with its own 1.8V LDO).  These all handle
300 mA, which will probably be enough -- the ECP5 datasheet says VCC (core clock)
draws 116 mA, and VCCAUX only 17 mA.  I'm not sure if I can drive all the other
chips on the 3.3V supply though.  At least the SNES chips will have plenty,
with an upstream 2A power brick.

And as a last resort, I'll stick in jumpers to hack off all the power, and use
a bench supply.
