# 2020-08-13

I think I've found the source of my math error:

The right way to measure pin pitch is by measuring from the side of one pin, to the same side of the farthest possible pin, which is what I did, and then divide the result by the number of pins, _not counting the last pin_.  This is probably what went wrong: even though I'd measured accurately (enough), I divided by 29 pins instead of 30.

This measurement (side-of-pin to side-of-pin) is 18.83mm on the long side (30 pins) and 12.52mm on the short side (20 pins).  If I do the math _wrong_, like I think I did before, I get:

* 18.83mm / 30 pins = 0.627mm per pin
* 12.52mm / 20 pins = 0.626mm per pin

Done correctly, this is:

* 18.83mm / 29 pins = 0.649mm per pin
* 12.52mm / 19 pins = 0.658mm per pin

The perfectly correct measurements would be:

* 0.65mm per pin * 29 pins = 18.85mm
* 0.65mm per pin * 19 pins = 12.35mm

Which is easily within the margin of error.  The same calculation done incorrectly would be:

* 0.635mm per pin * 29 pins = 18.415mm
* 0.635mm per pin * 19 pins = 12.069mm

Being 0.4mm off just about fits with the mismatch on the board, and it would have been obvious in retrospect, had I noticed at the time.  Instead, I assumed that the SNES chips would be using the same measurement system as the SRAM chips, which demonstrably are 1.27mm pin pitch (ie, 20 pins per inch) -- which would make 0.635mm (40 pins per inch) tantalizingly plausible.  Sigh.

So let's reverify some measurement, now that I have decent calipers.

SNES board footprint dimensions:

* Short side (20 pin)
  * Outer edge land-to-land distance: 20mm
  * Inner edge land-to-land distance: 16mm
  * Land length: 2.0mm
* Long side (30 pin)
  * Outer edge land-to-land distance: 26mm
  * Inner edge land-to-land distance: 22mm
  * Land length: 2.0mm

Measuring the chip itself:

* Short side (20 pin)
  * Outer edge pins: 18.82mm
  * Plastic: 13.72mm (~14mm)
* Long side (30 pin)
  * Outer edge pins: 24.82mm
  * Plastic: 19.78mm (~20mm)
