# 2020-04-19

Overdue updates:

PCB Layout is essentially complete, except for tweaking and a few last minute cosmetic additions (ie, revision number and serial space).  I still have to do part selection for a bunch of the small components (passives, connectors, etc).  I've already ordered and received enough of the "big" chips for 2 boards.  Seems like every time I get some bit of electronic hardware, it's physically smaller than I'd expected -- which is dumb because I know exactly how big these things are supposed to be.  Millimeters look a lot bigger on the screen than in real life.

I also have a second Ebay-sourced semi-broken SNES in shipping, to cannibalize for the PPU/VRAM chips, so I can keep my first in working order for probing.

## PCB Layout Notes

I mildly regret not taking better notes while working on the PCB layout -- I've learned a lot of practical details that ought to be written down.  Foremost among them is "get everything on a grid", which makes the layout _way_ more palatable.  Sadly most of the parts have wacky pin pitch -- but if only the last piece of the trace is weird, it's much easier to make the traces attractive and route things around each other.  I've disabled the "push" routing mode, as I find it's usually too slow and dumb to be helpful, and it doesn't keep things on a grid like I'd expect.  However, the "drag" command makes it easy to adjust traces myself in the way that the "push" mode would do (albeit a bit tediously).

Also important is that you can't make a good schematic without paying attention to the pinout of the different chips -- if you ignore the pinouts, it's likely you'll end up with a completely impossible PCB.  I find myself switching back and forth between schematic and PCB a lot.

## Design Review

So far a handful of people have taken a look at my design and made helpful comments; thanks all.  Some of the issues I've fixed already, but not all.

I suspect I'll have to ship off the board without being totally confident it'll work, though -- not because of review issues, but because of unknown unknowns, or perhaps just my own self-critical paranoia.  I'd hoped to ship the board this weekend, but it'll at least need to wait until next weekend.

## FPGA breakout

In particular, my FPGA BGA breakout is ... not great.  The signal pins are mostly fine, but there's not enough space for the power and ground planes to get in.  I'm still using the KiCad default area-to-via spacing (~0.508mm), which is likely too large to fit the BGA comfortably, and I think I can safely reduce this to 5 mil (~1.27mm) and still get the board made -- but it's a risk, and inner-plane issues will be all but impossible to fix.  Also, it's plausible that I can move around some of the signal vias and make space for the power and ground planes.  Together this might obviate the need for the bottom-layer power traces, and therefore make it far easier to fit in all the decoupling capacitors I ought to have.

## Software, FTDI and MPSSE

I've expanded the `spla` CLI into a subcommand system, and built out some of the basic infrastructure I think I'll need.  In particular I'm getting the FTDI interface set up first; For now I've got a FT232H cable hooked up directly to the scope probes (with jumper wires, since the cable has 0.1" female sockets), and that works well enough for debugging just signal timing.  I've also picked up a bunch of osmotic understanding of the scope's configuration, which is convenient but hard to write down.

The main thing I care about first is SPI, since I'll need that to get the FPGA off the ground, and FTDI's hardware for that is called MPSSE: basically it's a superset of SPI, I2C, and a few other common serial protocols.  This makes configuring it a bit tricky, because it has all the options of all the protocols mashed together, but fortunately, I only really care about SPI (mode 0/3), so I can ignore the rest of the details and only implement the things I expect to need.  There are some open-source MPSSE libraries, on top of `libftdi`, but I wasn't super impressed by any of them as yet.  For now I'm writing my own.

THe FTDI chip starts up in BITBANG mode on power-on (I think?) and you have to switch it to another mode to make things work correctly.  BITBANG mode makes `ftdi_write_data` set the output pins directly, and you have to tell it which pins ought to be outputs as part of the mode switch.  This is neat, but not what I want.

Switching into MPSSE mode is easy, but then you *must* write a correctly-formatted command stream with `ftdi_write_data`.  One early error I made was to mis-format the "set data bits" command with one argument byte instead of two, which got the protocol out of sync.  When this happens, the chip with stick `FD00` in the output buffer, and get confused if you don't try to read it.  Interestingly, "set data bits" sets both the input/output state and the data value at once -- essentially you can drive low, drive high, or set to hi-impedence input.  Makes sense.

I also had some trouble getting the math for the clock divisor working correctly; eventually I resorted to poor-man unit tests.  I should get a decent testing framework involved here at some point.

Drive state appears to be statically configured in the eeprom, which I'm not messing with on this cable for now.

The FTDI chip's state is preserved over USB connections (in fact, it probably doesn't even know when the USB-driving user process has gone away), but there's not really a good way to interrogate the chip for its state.  Resetting to a known-good state is probably fine, especially if most operations are large single-process automated runs.  I might later need to have some daemon owning the USB connection, or perhaps to just snapshot the current known state into a file.  Either of these are more complexity, so I'll leave that decision for later.

One interesting note here is that you should *not* send MPSSE commands one at a time, because the host / USB overhead is tremendous (~50us), and the FTDI chip is perfectly happy to take multiple commands at once.  Sending all the commands at once reduces the time between chip-select low and the first data byte from ~50us to basically one SPI clock cycle. This is way better for throughput, but it might play merry hell with the write-to-read buffer management -- it's easy when you're just writing and flushing, but reads need to be coordinated so you don't overfill the internal buffers and stall out.

Right now the software is in a middlingly-bad state; some cleanup and documentation is clearly necessary (later).
