# 2020-08-10

Bringup for the VRAM chips is (finally) complete: Both SRAM chips are on the board, and I can drive both (in the most trivial fashion) from the FPGA.  This did take about a week or so longer than I'd expected, due to making a number of silly errors (listed in `mistakes.md`).  I haven't investigated timing of the SRAM chips yet, but that's not actually all that interesting, unless I want to pre-fill the chips as fasst as possible.  Right now the (not-well-optimized) read/write cycle takes 64 clocks at 12MHz: 5.33us.  This is way faster than the 115200-baud UART can get data into the chip (86us), so it's fine for now.  Likely this can get down into the ~120 nanosecond range (as the datasheet indicates). I'm curious, however, how the PPUS handle the setup-and-hold timing constraints -- maybe they're using the master clock cleverly.

Next step is to solder the PPU chips on the board, and figure out how to drive them properly (but slowly).  I'm hoping the PPU chips are static logic (and therefore can handle being driven at aribtrarily low frequency), but if not, things get more complicated.

The first "real" FPGA image should support this single-step operation, with some handy features to run the clock forward to "interesting" points (`VBLANK`, `HBLANK`, etc).  I can plausibly upgrade this into a "high-speed" image, which collects signals at full speed (~21.47727MHz), configued by a PLL, and ship the data off the the host PC faster than the PPUs can generate.  This isn't certain, though -- we're getting close to the "experimentation" phase (wherein I don't have a clear plan anymore).  Exciting!

Also, I still need to write some interface for the FTDI synchronous fifo mode -- although this is only necessary for high-speed interaction, and the UART is probably ok for now.  From an application perspective, it's just a bidirectional byte transport.
