# 2020-04-04

PCB Layout is mostly done, and probably mostly wrong -- but at least it was a
good excercise. I'm not entirely sure I'm following JLCPCB's design rules,
since apparently there's no standard format to specify that (which is weird
to me, at least). At least for vias, I'm running right at the limit of JLCPCB's
design rules -- but the board is dense enough that it's probably necessary.
I ought to specify a large via size for power/ground purposes, though.

Track width is 3.5mil, and I've chosen 0.1mm (3.94 mil) for the smallest track,
so that *ought* to be compatible; but I don't know for sure. I'm also not sure
if they charge per-via, but they ought to since it takes time on the machine.
I'm intentionally limiting the size classes of vias, but I've not even sure
I've picked the right size; no idea what's actually available. Of course, if I
haven to increase my minimum via size, the whole layout goes kaput: there's
lots of places where I'm depending on being able to fit vias of this size.
However, the iCE40 `HX8K` eval board uses the same FPGA footprint
(`caBGA-256`), and that pretty much mandates the size of vias to fit between
the pads. Probably fine on that aspect.

At the least, I ought to dump out the Gerber files for the work-in-progress
PCB, and upload to JLCPCB for a quote.

TLDR: I'm guessing at a bunch of things; I'll probably get a pack of coasters
(bad PCBs) before I figure this out.

# Analog Again

I've vacillated on the choice of ADC chip again. Seems like most of them have
the same 2V range limit, so I'll have to voltage-divide the incoming signal
anyhow.

* `ADS9280`: 8-bit, 30Msps, ~$6.30, only ~130 in stock(!)
* `ADC1173`: 8-bit, 15Msps, ~$3.38, ~15k in stock

The `ADS9280` is more sophisticated, and has an out-of-range pin -- but other
than that, I don't need the other features. Conversely, the `ADC1173` requires
a minimum 1MHz clock rate (which is probably ok), and the reference diagrams
generally recommend opamps for the reference supply voltages (which I think
aren't necessary on the ADS9280? Not sure).

I still have to figure out the transistor amplifier, though. Assuming that the
`TST` digital output works, I don't have to worry *too* much about getting
analog right -- but it's still something I'd rather have working than not.
