# 2020-02-17

[SNES Specs](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Super_NES_Programming/SNES_Specs)
says that we have resolutions "between 256x224 and 512x448"; most games use
256x224. NTSC has a 3.579545 MHz color carrier frequency, and this is exactly
1/6th of the SNES `XIN` clock rate of 21.47727 MHz.  However, the CPU clock
rate is variable because it slows down to access some periphreals, I think.
This isn't relevant to me, I think -- it just lengthens the `PA` bus signals --
but  I might need to stretch those for more than 1 `XIN` cycle.  This might
need some experimentation with a working SNES.

NTSC is interlaced, so a single frame of 525 lines has two fields of 262.5
lines each: even lines in the first field; odd lines in the second.  The
visible raster image is 486 lines, the rest are invisible due to overscan.  The
frame rate is 60 / 1.001 == 59.994 Hz, or equivalently a field rate of 29.97
Hz.

The SNES image is 256x224 == 57344 pixels, up to 512x448==229376.  If we assume
that each pixel is 24-bit color (a wild oversimplification), we need 172032 or
688128 pixels per frame.  At 30 fps, that's 5160960 Bps == 5.16MBps, or
20643840 Bps == 20.64 MBps.  This is comfortably below the USB 2.0 High Speed
rate, which is 480Mbps, or ~48MBps (nominally 60MBps, but assuming some chunky
protocol overhead).  There's other pins to involve, but their output is likely
much less constant, and therefore more compressible. Figuring this out more
throughoughly will require spreadsheets, which are hard to put in git.

Other options include:

*   Sampling everything for a fraction of a frame, and picking up the rest on
    the successive frames;
*   Sampling only some pins for a frame, and repeating frames as necessary;
*   Compressing the data in a variety of fancy ways;
*   Storing a single frame's data in some fast RAM on the side, and
    trickling it out over USB slowly;
*   Upgrading to USB 3.0 Super Speed chips;
*   Clocking the chip slow (which might be impossible);
*   Pausing the `XIN` clock in HBlank if we're falling behind (which might also
    be impossible);

Other thoughts:

I probably need to define some miniature scripting language that runs in the
FPGA and simulates the effects of the CPU; ie "wait until VBLANK, then write
these registers and read these values", etc.  This needs to happen on an exact
clock-cycle match, for reasonable testing.  Not sure if this should be defined
in `XIN`, or `5M`, or `3.58M` clock cycles.  Come to think of it, I'm not sure
where the `5M` stuff comes from.

I still need to set up some bringup plans, including several stages of things
to test on a partially-completed board.  Maybe this order:

1.  Get USB power working, and check the various voltage regulators.  In the
    meantime, hold all other chips in reset by jumpers.
1.  Get FTDI chip working.  Make sure the USB connection works, then use the
    (mildly horrific) FTDI tool to program its flash chip.  Alternately,
    get the EEPROM set up first by having a debug header to program it directly.
    Add an LED I can twiddle from FTDI for this.
1.  Get programming of the FPGA's flash from FTDI working.  It should be
    possible to do this without jumper settings.
1.  Get the FPGA working, first booting from flash, then programming SRAM
    directly.  This is helpful during development of the FPGA image.
    Add some LEDs on extra pins (if there are any!) to help test this.
1.  Get the FPGA UART / whatever data protocol working.
1.  Make the FPGA read and write VRAM directly, while the PPU chips are in
    reset.  This probably isn't strictly necessary, but it's super useful to be
    able to initialize VRAM seperately (ie, start in the middle of a frame).
1.  Make the FPGA pull the PPU chips out of reset.  Verify reset sequencing,
    and collect signals from `HBLANK` and `VBLANK` to see if pseudo-video
    output is working.
1.  Collect other signals from the PPU outputs, and carry them back to the PC.
1.  Bringup the analog chips, and see if we get any reasonable image.  Probably
    it will be all black at first, so try some trivial test vectors (comapred
    to an emulator).
1.  Complete bringup by shoveling all signals back to the PC.
1.  Figure out frame reassembly code on the PC, so we can dump an image of a
    frame.
