# 2020-05-28

## FPGA Reflow attempt #3

This time, I tried going more extreme, and ran the hot air station up to 475C (waaay too hot) at full blast.  Starting about 10cm away, I held the temperature at ~200C for a minute or two, then ramped up to, well, a lot hotter.

This _definitely_ got the FPGA fully reflowed; it was moveable but sticky on the pads; I tried not to push it far enough to cause bridges.  I stil have quite a bit of flux liquified underneath, so plausibly this is fine.  The chip, once cooled, was very closely aligned.

I ran a quick check for obvious bridging of power pins, which came up clean.

First power-on state: ~20mA / 0.24W used, which seems low.  Not a good sign, compared to ~50ma / 0.6W before.  Only `INIT` is lit, dimly, which is plausibly hi-z.  Board comes up in USB no problem.

`bringup_ftdi` reports similar to before (two pins 'error' because they're being driven by the FPGA; good.  But, this causes power usage to rise to ~50mA / 0.6W again, which is good too.  `ftdi_hiz` drops a bit to ~40mA / 0.48W.  (All these numbers are very crudely rounded, because the bench supply's readout at low current isn't very accurate, and I'm pretty sure they're dropping digits all over.)

`load_bitstream_test_flash` appears to work; `D3` and `PROGRAM` alternate as expected, and `INIT` is opposite of `PROGRAM`.  (Aside: Kor suggested that the FTDI Vendor and Product IDs might make the kernel load the ftdi uart driver, which would explain the bogus flashing from before.  Not sure if this is so, but I can use a different VID/PID if needed.)

`load_bitstream` still fails; no life on the SPI bus.  I'm reasonably confident the chip is soldered on correctly, this time, so maybe it's bogus software?

One obvious mistake (in hindsight) is that I'd placed the printf of the chip id before the `ftdiutil_flush_reads` call.  Oops.  Nonetheless, no data is being read from the chip at all -- probably because `lsmod` shows that the `ftdi_sio` driver has taken over the chip.  So, Kor was right.  Let's switch to a different VID/PID to avoid that.

Setting the Vendor ID and Product ID to other values does not fix the flashing.  Even with `ftdi_sio` not loaded, it still does the flashy thing.  For what it's worth, it shows up in `lsusb` as `ehci`, with no driver.  Strange.

Ah: running `bringup_ftdi` seems to reliably get the device in the right state, and then `load_bitstream_test_flash` works.

And once I do that, I get life!  Sortof.  "Read ID" returns `[c0 ff ff ff ff ff ff ff]` -- which isn't right, but it's something.

Various other permutations don't seem to work, though.
