# 2020-05-26

## BGA Reflow Attempt #2

Hot air station is very inconsistent in output:

* Set point 350C, airflow 4.5, temperature at 2cm: peak 250C, then drops to 210C - 230C.
* Set point 400C, airflow 4.5, temperature at 2cm: peak 340C, then drops to 280C - 310C.
* Set point 450C, airflow 4.5, temperature at 2cm: ... wait

This is *very* distance dependent; just 0.5cm drops the temperature by ~80C.

So, a plausible idea:

* Surround the chip with kapton tape, to avoid scorching (more) components.
* Tape the thermocouple to the board, close to the BGA, so I can approximately measure the temperature.
* Set the hot air station to 500C.
* Hold it ~10cm away until the board reaches ~200C.  Do this slowly, over 3-4 minutes (~3C/sec).
* Bring it close to get above 260C +/- 5C (peak reflow temperature).  Lead-free solder melts at 217C, but the underside of the package needs to be that hot.
* Hold it there for ~60 seconds.
* Remove heat slowly (~6C/sec).

Ok, tried this.  Results:

The flux under the chip (which I probably put too much before) started to boil, which was fine, but then it started smoking a lot.  This spooked me, and I probably didn't get hot enough for long enough.  I *think* the chip settled down a bit (which is good), but I can still clearly see balls (which isn't).  Inconclusive.

Powering up the board:

* Initial lights: `INIT` is dim, all others off.  Good.
* `load_bitstream`'s `test_flash` is still doing the weird blinky thing.
* Board's taking about 50mA / 0.6W now, which is a good sign (previously 0.36W).

Hook up the scope.  Flashes are very consistently 3.25ms, which is weird, and happens on both the "toggle `D3`" and "toggle `PROGRAM`" operations.

Data being flushed looks ok: right opcodes and values, in all cases.  There's an extra no-op flush operation, from flushing the unmodified A interface, but that's ok; it never calls into libftdi.

Try leaving other pins as hi-z.  No effect.

Try `bringup_ftdi`, which might not work once the FPGA is on the board.  It reports two errors: pin 43 `DONE` is stuck low, and pin 44 `INIT` toggles when it shouldn't.  This might be ok; signs of life from the FPGA.

Try `load_bitstream_test_flash` again.  Now the weird glitch doesn't happen, and `INIT` flashes as well.  Life!  I don't know if this was "fixed" by hardware or software, though.

Try `load_bitstream`.  Fails to read the FPGA ID, so something's still wrong.

Reset the board, and the glitch is happening again.  `bringup_ftdi` reports the same events; which I think means "the FPGA is always driving DONE low" and "driving PROGRAM changes INIT", and that's fine.

Sometimes `load_bitstream_test_flash` works, and sometimes it glitches.  Very very strange.  It's probably worth refactoring that into an actual command, though.
