# 2020-02-18

More design ideas from Kor and Nate, and also Alex W.:

Nate suggests that I since USB 2.0 doesn't have quite enough data rate, I could
just stick a Gigabit Ethernet chip on the board, which gets me to 125Mbps, or
thereabouts. I hadn't considere this yet, but it's certainly possible. There's
an on-board protocol for talking to it called SGMII (or RGMII for the reduced
pin-count version), which is pretty similar to USB's UTMI or ULPI, but runs at
a higher clock rate than 60Mhz.

Kor thinks is this maybe harder than necessary, because I'd have to build an IP
stack in the FPGA -- the transceiver chip only handles the packets, and I'd
still have to format the frames correctly and do checksums and MAC addresses
and such. This doesn't seem like a lot of trouble to me, thought. Hm.

Alex has done a bunch of FPGA stuff before (albeit at way higher frequency than
this stuff), and mentioned that there's some more physical complications
to Ethernet (magnetics and transformers and such), which might make that not
worth the trouble.

Also I'd have to power the board separately, since power-over-ethernet isn't a
thing generally. I might have to power the board anyways, since USB only
provides 500 mA, but for early bringup I'll just use a bench power supply
(which I don't have yet). That's a problem for later.

Alternatively, Kor suggests getting a Cypress USB 3.0 chip (like the EZ-USB
FX3), and just using USB Superspeed, which is *plenty* fast enough. THis is a
bit costly (meh, $20 or so), and the Cypress chip only comes in a BGA package
-- that's scary, to an inexperienced solder-er. However, I might get stuck
figuring it out for the FPGA anyways -- if I need the HX8K in a ca256 BGA
package to get enough IO pins, I'm stuck there. I ought to know how many actual
IOs I need now; just need to update the pinmap.  Another advantage of the
Cypress FX3 is that is has a big internal buffer (~512KiB), so that give me a
lot of elasticity.

Nonetheless, I'm still thinking I'll start with USB 2.0 via FTDI, since I'm
familiar with that, and figure out ways to deal with the lower data rate. Once
I've got the first board running, I'll be able to figure out if I can slow down
the chips, or if I have to do something wacky to absorb that much data anyways.
I could still stick a RAM chip on there, but DRAM is annoying to drive and SRAM
might not have enough space.

Kor also strongly recommends the JLCPCB SMT service, so they can put all the
fiddly SMT components on the back of the board, and I do the big ones myself.
Their catalog is ~30k parts, but I don't know what exactly I need yet. This is
still a good plan-of-record, though. Their website mentions some strict
restrictions on what they'll do (what kinds of boards, solder mask, number of
parts, etc), but that's workable. As far as finishes go, he's used HASL and had
no issue, so there's not likely a compelling reason to get ENIG just yet.

Kor also also mentions that he's gotten the FTDI chip to run in FIFO mode at
~60 MBps, but had trouble with the host side doing stupid things and not
keeping up with the max. Still worth trying I think.

I also found some schematic bugs when showing Kor:

*   I don't need to double-name the bus signals; need to check on the KiCad
    docs.
*   PPU1 and PPU2 have some incorrectly overlapping MISC signals, and generally
    should be named better anyhow.
*   I don't actually know that "5MIN" and "5MOUT" are 5 MHz signals, so the
    joined version shouldn't be called that.
*   Reset sequencing is kinda bonkers, but I knew that already.
*   All pages ought to be A3 (or at least the same size).

I need to standardize the PDF schematic exports naming convention, so I don't
confuse the heck out of myself. I kinda dumped the first one incautiously, so I
should probably increment all the version numbers and start actually versioning
the thing correctly.

Next milestone: Once I've got a plausible design and mostly-correct schematic,
it's time to buy some semi-broken SNES's online -- they'll take longer to
arrive than the other things, and they're not very expensive. If I can find
them as "runs, but no sound", that's ideal -- everything good except for a chip
I don't care about, and way cheaper.

Last note: I also discovered that the open source libftdi can program the FTDI
chip's configuration EEPROM, so I don't need to resort to a horrible .NET tool.
