# 2020-02-14

I've spent a few days (weeks) with an HX8K development board, and got a few
easy (trivial) things working -- UART transmit and receive, synchrnous fifo,
etc. That's probably good enough evidence that I can get an FPGA project off
the ground.

In the meantime I've been thinking about the necessary board design. For the moment, I'm going to leave off the SNES CPU (65C16) on the assumption that I can have the FPGA emulate whatever bus transactions the CPU might do that interfere with the PPU operations.

Also I've installed KiCad and played with it a little bit -- but not enough.
I'll at least need to build some custom components, which isn't too hard.
Part selection is more of a problem.

The general layout of the board is this:

```none
USB port -> FTDI 2232H -> FPGA -> PPU1 / PPU2 -> ADC -> back to FPGA
```

So: parts of the board design that I need to figure out:

* Power supply. I need 3.3V for the FPGA and 5V for the PPU signals. I don't
  know that the USB bus will provide enough power to actually run the chips
  (normally the SNES has a 12V mains input). If not, I'll need to hook up some
  external mains supply, and isolate the USB from it.

* Signal voltages. The signals from the FPGA to the PPU chips will need
  voltage shifters, unless there's a way to drive the FPGA IO pins at 5V
  (unlikely). The FPGA pins are probably 5V-tolerant, so the input side should
  be fine.

* Part selection. I can grab some of the parts that the dev boards use, and
  even crib a bunch of the schematics for early power sequencing. I probably
  want to support both CRAM and flash programming, since CRAM is way easier for
  development. Ideally I can switch this with a GPIO instead of swapping
  jumpers.

* VRAM. Should these be seperate chips, or wired into the FPGA and using its
  internal block RAM?  These would have to be asynchronous, I'd expect, or at
  least very fast if clocked.  Possibly if the FPGA is operating at ~21.4MHz,
  then a single-clock block ram access is fast enough for the ~3.58 MHz PPU to
  catch it.

* Clock rate. Both chips have a 3.579545 MHz input (`3.58M`), but also a
  21.47727 MHz "master clock" input. The SNES CPU runs at ~21 MHz internally,
  but acceses the periphreal bus at ~3.58MHz. The PPU2 chip takes 21.47727 MHz
  as an input, and drives 3.58MHz as an output. I'm not totally sure what
  frequency the actual chips care about; I'll probably need to hook up a scope
  to an actual working SNES.

There's an SNES emulator/debugger called
[`no$sns`](https://problemkaputt.de/sns.htm), which could be useful.  He's also
got a good datasheet for the PPU registers, though I'm not sure how exactly the
cpu-visible addresses map to the bus.
