# 2020-05-14

## Bringup phase 2: USB / FTDI

Getting the FTDI chip working:

* Collect parts. Not listing one at at time, like previously. (maybe bad idea to skip this.)

* Front side done.  Over-did it with the solderpaste; had to fool with solder wick for eeprom.  In particular, the LEDs don't lay flat if there's too much solderpaste, and the passives get balls of solder on them (which is mostly cosmetic).

* Back side:
  * According to a random site on the internet, the USB `ID` pin should be left  floating.  I'll ignore C1/R1 for now, and come back to this later.
  * Mishap: I flipped a 10k-ohm resistor halfway across the room, and it's gone now.  At least they're cheap.

* Again, too much solder paste!  In theory I can remove some with solderwick, but that's hard to do on tiny passives without them going all over the place, so I'll leave it for now (and get a stencil next time).

* I've bridged a ton of the pins on the FTDI chip.  Sigh
  * And the bridges are between and behind the pins.  The really, really tiny pins.
  * This is really tough to fix, but adding a lot of flux (which I ought to have used anyway?) and using the hot air with solder wick seems to have mostly fixed it.  I could probably use some super-tiny solder wick for this sort of thing, or just a bare copper wire that fits between the pins.
    * I tested this by checking for connectivity between adjacent pairs of pins via multimeter.  This proved there's no bridges, but I got some false positives in 8-16 -- these pins are all wired to ground, so of course they're connected.
    * It's possible I removed too much solder and disconnected some pins.  Impossible to tell for now, and I think that's pretty unlikely anyhow.
  * `J4` pinheader got a bit melted because of this.  Just cosmetic, but that's one downside of progressively building the board.  This will probably get works when I add some of the nearby capacitors later.
  * Hopefully I haven't overheated the chip and fried it.  No idea how to tell.

* The excessive flux required more serious cleaning, with isopropyal alcohol.  I'll eventually need to immersion-clean the board, since it just doesn't get clean enough.  At least I got most of the flux off.

* Strange note: There was some white powdery stuff around the USB connector pins, which I'm not sure what it was.  Looked like batter corrosion, but can't be.  Might be some stuff from inside the USB connector; not sure.  Ignore for now.

Moment of Truth!

* Hook up power

* LED `D6` lights! But dimly, voltage is ~1V.  Something's wrong, those ought to be 3.3V or 0V.

* Oscillator is bang-on 12MHz, and has a decent waveform. Probably could be cleaned up with a better decoupling scheme. [DSC000013.png]

* 1.8V rail isn't working; shows as 0V all around.  This is a problem.
  * The chip could be fried from too much heat.  Not very likely I think.
  * There could be some strapping option I've overlooked?
  * I could have killed the chip by accidentally shorting something while probing.  Also not very likely; there's not enough power to break things here. (Caveat: I don't know exactly what I've current limited to, because the bench supply's analog knobs are crap.)
  * Capacitor could be shorted (followup: no, it's not).
  * I could workaround by adding a 1.8V LDO and snipping that pin off, and connect to the three `VCORE` pins.  Stupidly I didn't include a 0-ohm to split this net if I needed to.
    * Unfortunately I don't have a 1.8V LDO -- maybe steal a 2.5V LDO and resistor-divide it down?  Not like I'm going to use all of those anyhow.
  * All four 1.8V pins are in fact connected.
  * Routing the 1.8V traces underneath the chips was not clever.
  * Checking datasheet:
    * I'm missing some of the the 3.3V decoupling capacitors.  Oops.
    * I'm missing the 1.8V decoupling capacitors in the reference schematic -- but the iCE40-HX8K dev board also omits these, so they're plausibly unnecessary.  That wouldn't affect the 1.8V LDO, though.
    * Strapping looks ok.
  * I could try powering just the 3.3V `VREGIN` pin on my spare FTDI chip, and checking that I get 1.8V on `VREGOUT`.  This might be hard to do.

That's enough for tonight; pick it up later.
