# 2020-03-04

Chris had a good point today: I'll likely have to deal with swapping around
SNES PPU chips quite a bit, because some of them will be bad, and at the least
it's a real pain to re-solder the same chips several times. His idea was to
build a carrier board for the SNES chips, and solder some kind of header into
both the real SNES and my FPGA board. If this works, I could easily swap around
the chips, and experiment with multiple variations (should I find any beside
the SNES 1-Chip). This is bascially a do-it-yourself QFP-100 socket -- which
themselves are basically impossible to get these days. The trick here is to get
the carrier board (and its pins) assembled by machine, and use its physcial
dimensions to solder the corresponding header onto the SNES board.

A similar variation on this idea is to build two carrier boards at fit
together, and wire one into the SNES with a ton (~200) of bodge wires. I'd
probably have to bolt the thing to the SNES board with a carefully-drilled hole
(avoiding traces) in order for this to be stable enough to stay functional.
This sounds painful, but it might be easier than finding the right kind of
small-pitch 90-degree headers in Digikey.

Also, the game-bit security screwdrivers got disrupted in Amazon somehow. I've
ordered another set. Sigh.

## Thoughts on FPGA validation

Making sure the FPGA gets soldered to the board correctly is a potential
problem. My current idea is to build a board-validation FPGA image that can
check for the two obvious problems: cold (not-connected) solder joints, and
bridges.

The first step here is to get FTDI driving the SPI interface and necessary
boot-sequence pins -- if this doesn't work, I'm dead in the water anyways. Once
that's working, I can supply an FPGA image with a UART command protocol that
does the rest.

To check for bridges, it's as easy as driving a single pin with some known
pattern, and checking that the other pins (with weak pullup/pulldown enabled)
don't read that pattern. I'll need to be careful of coupling here; it's
possible for a floating pin to switch even if there isn't a bridge. However,
this doesn't handle cold joints.

Checking for cold joints is harder -- plausibly, I can drive a 3.3V alternating
signal on each pin one at a time, and the FPGA can verify that it sees the
signal on the right pin. This also works for bridges, come to think of it --
the FPGA should see exactly one pin at a time with the toggling signal. I can
generate that with some trivial code on an Arduino, assuming I don't have a
decent function generator at the time. It's probably also worth it to set up a
driver program that talks to the FPGA over the UART, and displays a progressive
diagram of the validation. In that case, I can simply check each pin one at a
time, and the code will verify that it's working correctly.

It's also possible to run the same test again once the level shifters are
installed, from the 5V side -- assuming I don't have them installed by
JLCPCB-SMT, which I probably should. In that case, I'll either want to
hard-wire the level shifter's enable pin, or else have a test pad to check
those pins first.

Regardless of all this, I should check to see if Lattice has a general solution
to this problem first -- they might have some not-painful tool that can do
something like a boundary scan or some such.
