# 2020-03-07

Finally got to take apart the first SNES (`UN16830049`):
*   Remove six 4.5mm security screws.
*   Lift top cover partially, and unplug the front panel cable from the main board.
*   Remove the top cover entirely.
*   Slide the new-disconnected front panel board out of the top cover.
*   Lift the eject level on the loose side, and slide out the captive side. Be careful to not lose the spring.
*   Remove power switch (two #1 screws and keyed connector P3; red == pin 1, black == pin 2).
*   Remove seven main-board screws: Two in front corners, two on the cartrige
    connector, one on back edge of the board, and two on the back connector
    plate. (The longer silver screw is on the of the cartridge slot near th
    captive side of the eject axel).
*   Remove the main board from the case.
*   Lift the cpu shield directly upwards to dislodge it from the cartridge connetor.
*   Remove sheet-metal heatsink: Remove three screws from the bottom of the board (with lock washers), and one screw from the `17805`.

Six security screws came out easily enough (with the right screwdriver).
Rattling sound was a bit of broken plastic from the cracked corner, which isn't
surprising. There's a lot of interesting mechanical stuff here, like the bit
that locks the cartridge in place while the power switch is on -- which I'm
going to ignore complete. The "eject" lever has a spring on the axel that I
almost lost, but I'm not likely to put it back on anyways.

The front panel board has some goop on it, probably flux. It's all cheap
two-layer through-hole stuff, so maybe they cheaped-out on the cleaning too. So
does the bottom of the main board.

Notable chips on the board:

*   `S-CPU B`: `5A22-02`
*   `S-PPU1`: `5C77-01`
*   `S-PPU2 C`: `5C78-03`
*   VRAM: MOSEL `MS62256DL-10FC`

CPU / PPU chips are 20mm x 14mm, QFP-100, 0.635mm pin pitch (probably).
VRAM are 8mm x 17mm, TSSOP-28, ~1.214mm pin pitch?  Need to check with
datasheet.

Of greater concern is that that `17085` regulator is screwed into the
folded-sheet-metal heatsink, which implies that it does dissapate quite a bit
of power -- 5V at up to 890mA, so up to 5W? Curious.

Also: The `BA6596F` video encoder is a long way (~3 inches) from `PPU2`, so I
shouldn't worry about trace lengths for the analog parts.

Board is labelled as `SNS-CPU-RGB-02`, "&copy;1995 Nintendo". Probably this
isn't the first revision of the board, or the chips. Plausibly the schematic I
have isn't accurate -- I'll need to check the `PPU2` pinout at least. This is
at least a four-layer board, though, so tracing the internals is tricky.

Confirmed that the board still works (although you have to be careful with the
cartridge).

## Checking connectivity via multimeter:

Curiously, there's only three BJT's where the schematic has six. Nintendo
probably eliminated the first of each pair for cost savings reasons; I think
it's just a protection so `PPU2` doesn't have to drive as much output current.
This is a bit tricky to test, because the BJT's are on the bottom of the board.

I get weird results: `Q1`, `Q2`, and `Q3` all conduct to some pines near the right place (97-99 or so) -- but also to a second set (~85-90).

... This be because I'm dumb. Of course BJTs conduct between gate and ground; the second set is test pins wired to ground.

Spot checking some other pins (power and ground mostly) seems to match up.
I'll probably need to be more determined about verifying the schematic; I'm not
sure what might be different with this board than the schematic's one.

Input power over the `17805` is 9.15 V, output is 5.01 V. Looks fine.

For now, I'll leave off this part.

## Scope probing

Note that shorting some pins can corrupt the display (obviously). (picture)

XIN clock does run at 21.47 MHZ, or thereabouts, peak-to-peak voltage swing is
4.24 V (actually 424mV, measured on a 10x probe). [SDS0002] [SDS0007]

Shorting random pins in the VRAM chips corrupts the screen, like I'd expect.

Shorting the R/G/B output pins together fiddles with the screen colors, which
is neat.

Output RGB pins seem to be 0V - 2.7V, which is a bit weird. It's hard to hold
the probe in position, so I might need to solder a lead wire on.

Shorting the color sync pin makes all kinds of silly things happen.

`VBLANK` and `HBLANK` both work like I expect them to.

The "fade out" effect is analog in nature (a bit), which will screw up the
precision of the ADC's. This is probably tolerable, because that's a very
simple effect.

It's really hard to correlate anything (or get a stable image) without having a
second probe hooked up to `HBLANK` or `VBLANK`, for which I need to solder on a
lead.

Also, if I leave the SNES on for a few minutes, the `17805` regulator gets up
to 120&deg; F, which is probably bad. I'll put the heatsink back on for now; I
don't need to probe anything under it.

(Also, note to self: you have to put a game in for the thing to boot.)

## Pin Survey

Since I'm reasonably sure the pinout of the chips isn't what I'd thought from
the schematic, let's survey all the pins on the PPU chips. (The VRAM chips are
standard non-Nintendo chips, so I'm confident they're the same).

I'm doing all this on the Super Mario World attract screen, but I don't have
the trigger on `VBLANK` or `HBLANK` set up yet (due to lack of hands; I need to
solder a probe wire to it).

**PPU1:**

Pin   | What        | Notes
------|-------------|---------
1     | `TST1`      | Always 0V.
2     | `TST2`      | Always 0V.
3     | `~PARD`     | Normally High, goes low for 142ns (~4 cycles?) once per frame. Bit of ground bounce.
4     | `~PAWR`     | Toggles to low lots during a frame.
5-12  | `PA[7..0]`  | Toggles a lot.
13    | `VCC`       | Always 5V.
14-21 | `D[7..0]    | Toggles a lot.
22    | `GND`       | Always 0V.
23    | `HVCMODE`   | Always 0V.
24    | `PALMODE`   | Always 0V.
25    | `~MASTER`   | Always 0V. Shorting to high crashes the console instantly.
26    | `~EXTSYNC`  | Always 5V (input from extension connector).
27    | `NC`        | Always 0V.
28-35 | `VDB[0..7]` | Video rendering: toggles a lot during rendering, and bit during VBLANK (when CPU is writing VRAM, probably).
36    | `VCC`       | Always 5V.
37-44 | `VDA[0..7]  | Video rendering.
45    | `GND`       | Always 0V.
46    | `VA15`      | Video rendering.
47    | `VA14`      | Video rendering.
48-50 | `VAB[13..12]` | Video rendering.
51-61 | `VAB[12..0]` | Video rendering.
62    | `VCC`       | Always 5V.
63-76 | `VAA[13..0]` | Video rendering.
77    | `GND`       | Always 0V.
78    | `~VAWR`     | Low during VBLANK -- updates to palettes maybe?
79    | `~VBWR`     | Low during VBLANK.
80    | `~VRD`      | Stays low during all of video rendering, no gaps (surprisingly).
81    | `VCC`       | Always 5V.
82-85 | `CHR[3..0]` | High during the part of rendering where the corresponding sprites are.
86-87 | `PRIO[1..]` | Unclear; toggles a lot during rendering.
88-90 | `COLOR[2..0]` | Unclear; toggles a lot during rendering.
91    | `~VCLD`     | Unclear; low for only 62.8us per frame (line?).
92    | `~HCLD`     | Unclear; low during rendering maybe.
93    | `~5MOUT`    | Definitely a 5.38 MHz clock.
94    | `~OVER`     | Unclear; always high.
95    | `FIELD`     | Low for one field (half a frame), High for the other half.
96    | `GND`       | Always 0V.
97    | `~5MIN`     | Same 5.38 MHz clock as `~5MOUT`, seems like.
98    | `~RESET`    | High, except when reset switch is held.
99    | `TST2`      | Always GND
100   | `XIN`       | Master clock, 21.4764 MHz (close to nominal 21.47727 MHz). Approximately sinusoidal.

Look like everything here matches expectations -- but it's neat to get a first look at the inter-PPU signals.

**PPU2**

Pin   | What        | Notes
------|-------------|---------
1     | `~BURST`    | Low for 2.84us every line.
2     | `~PED`      | Low for 10.8us or 10.96us every line.  Unclear.
3     | `3.58M`     | Definitely 3.58 MHz digital clock signal.
4     | `~TOUMEI`   | Toggles at 3.58 MHz, but not a clock.  Unclear.
5     | `VCC`       | Always 5V.
6     | `~PAWR`     | Toggles a lot during rendering, which is surprising. HDMA perhaps.
7     | `~PARD`     | Toggles only a little, possibly during VBLANK.
8-15  | `D[7..0]    | Toggles a lot. Curiously there's two different drive strengths visible. [SDS0008]
16    | `GND`       | Always 0V.
17-24 | `PA[7..0]`  | Same as PPU1.
25    | `HBLANK`    | High for 12.8us every line, cycle time 63.6us (15.72 kHz)
26    | `VBLANK`    | High for 2.4ms every field, cycle time 16.7ms (59.88 Hz)
27    | `5MOUT`     | 5.38 MHz clock -- but sometimes stays low a bit too long [SDS0010]
28    | `~RESOUT0`  | High, except when reset switch is held.
29    | `EXTLATCH`  | Always high (driven by expansion port).
30    | `PALMODE`   | Always 0V.
31    | `XIN`       | Master clock, as above.
32    | `VCC`       | Always 5V.
33    | `~RESOUT1`  | Similar to `~RESOUT0`.
34    | `~RESET`    | Reset, drivin by CIC
35    | `GND`       | Always 0V.
36-50 | Inter-PPU   | Same as on PPU1.
51-58 | `VDB[0..7]` | Video rendering. Interestingly there's some pull-high stuff when left open-bus. [SDS0011]
59    | `VCC`       | Always 5V.
60-67 | `VDA[0..7]` | Video rendering.
68    | `GND`       | Always 0V.
69-75 | `EXT[0..7]` | Video rendering (redundant?).
77-82 | `TST[0..5]` | Always 0V.
83    | `VCC`       | Always 5V.
84-93 | `TST[6..15]` | Always 0V.
94    | `AVCC`      | Always 5V.  Surprising, since this is the analog reference level, and could be otherwise.
95-97 | `R`/`G`/`B` | Analog color outputs (see below).
98    | `HVCMODE`   | Always 0V.
99    | `GND`       | Always 0V.
100   | `~CSYNC`    | Low for per-scanline sync (4.6us), but wobbles in period weirdly -- probably offset between fields.

Analog color outputs: varies from 0V to ~3V, but the top and bottom voltages
wobbles based on the signal strength.  This might need a more precise ADC,
maybr. [SDS0012]  I'll need to get better characterization on the analog
outputs, but this is a good start.  I'll also almost certainly want to have
some way to tweak the signal range, even if it's a manual potentiometer.

For now, I probably don't want to hook up the component output stuff -- as long
as I have test points to hook up the scope, that should be enough to validate
the output signals.

Also, the fade-out effect does appear to squash the signal in analog, and not just
change the palette -- this will be impossible to record accurately, but perhaps
we don't care.

At this point, I don't think checking connectivity with the multimeter is
necessary.
