# 2020-07-26

Level shifters are all installed now; using the same technique as the latest FTDI chip (which has the same pitch): pre-tin all the pads with solder and liquid flux, then use hot air at ~400C to reflow the pads.  This probably worked ok; all the pins looks fine and there's no obvious bridges.  I think the level shifters have slightly larger leads and a slight thinner package, so it's easier to see around them.

The previous technique for `bringup_boundary` doesn't work so well here, because many of the pins are single-directional (input or output), and I can't just set them all to input.  So, instead:

* Test that the `DIR` pins all work as expected, via scope.  Just drive them with a known square wave, and tap the pin on the chip with the scope.  This is painstaking and non-automatable, but should work fine.
* Set everything that can be an input as such, and drive a signal with `BODGE[123]` (which is 5V, instead of `EXTRA[123]` which is 3.3V).  Test in the same way as `bringup_boundary`.
* Set everything that can be an output as such, and drive some signal I can pick up on the scope.  I might be able to hook a test wire to the `J6` input signals, however, which might work better.

The most important part of this process is to not bridge the 3.3V and 5V rails, which will destroy the FPGA (again).

First fooling-around tests:

* Driving a 12MHz signal to `XIN` works, and comes through the level shifter without issues.  Sadly it's hard to measure at full speed, since I didn't include a ground pad nearby and the loop area is too big.
* `BODGE1` is connected on the 3.3V side, but not on 5V side (pin drives the 5V signal, but it doesn't show up on the header).  Darn.  `BODGE2` and `BODGE3` are fine, though.
