# 2020-06-27

Building the second board, starting with the FPGA first.



* Set up workspace.
* Tape thermocouple next to FPGA; I know this isn't very accurate, but that's probably ok.
* No bucket-of-kapton-tape this time, since I don't have other components to protect.
* Hot air station set to 475C (which I still think is too high).
* Unsealed second FGPA from the first package.  Humidity indicator seems to be ok (blue in all three circles, although 5% is a bit faint.  Not sure this is a Level 1 or Level 2 part).
* Added generous amount of flux, smoothed out a bit with toothpick.
* Preheat board and then ramp-up.

...

Too much flux!  Chip started floating away on a pool of flux, and I had to bump it around a bunch to try an keep in in place.  I wasn't sure if the chip had fully reflowed properly, because it was held up by a bunch of liquid and smoking flux. (Also my cat intruded, and threw off the process, so that might have been an issue).  I tried to get the chip in place, but I bumped it so badly that there were obvious bridges on the edge balls.

Taking the chip off went fine, but the solder balls are all stuck together -- that chip is probably unrecoverable without re-balling the BGA (which is more work than I care to do, and I don't have a stencil for it anyway).

Trying with another chip; less flux this time: just two dots in the middle of the BGA.  This seems to have worked much better; chip is well-aligned and no obvious edge bridges.  Moving on to the rest of the build.

...

Manufacturing glitch: I still have 10 10uF 0805 capactiors (digikey 490-10516-1-ND), which I should only have 8 (using 2 on the first board).  Not sure what went wrong, but it's probably the 0603 package version of the same size.  Need to check up on this via inventory.

I also rediscovered my getting the 1uF package wrong (should be 0603, but I bought 0402 -- oops).

## Board Manufacturing Tests

* Apply 12V power.  Verify that `L1` and `L2` light up.
* Measure 3.3V and 5.0V regulator output.
  * 5.0V measured at 4.946V (1.1% below nominal).
  * 3.3V measured at 3.221V (2.4% below nominal).
* Apply 3.3V power to 1.1V and 2.5V LDOs.
  * 1.1V measured at 1.102V (0.2% above nominal).
  * 2.5V measured at 2.506V (0.2% above nominal).
* Apply 3.3V power via jumper.
  * `DONE` and `INIT` LEDs come up, which is surprising.  FPGA doesn't have core power yet, but apparently IO power is enough to start?
* Apply 1.1V and 2.5V jumpers.
  * This causes `DONE` to go out.  Probably having all the power rails up make the FPGA work, and then it complains that it has no image.
* Attach (stock, non-severed-shield) USB cable.
  * No response.
* Attach severed-sheild cable.
  * Device comes up immediately.  Sigh.  Still don't know what up with that.
* `splat ftdi_list_devices`
  * Shows up correctly as new device.  _(I still need to fix that command to scan the right vendor ids, I think.)_
* `splat bringup_ftdi`
  * It's ok to have "L" on bit 20 ("DONE") and "K" on bit 22 ("PROGRAM_N") -- this is what `B001` has.
  * Pins broken:
    * Bit 24 `LED3` is stuck low; probably shorted to adjacent ground pin.
    * Bit 0 `FIFO_D` is stuck low; probably similar.

Fixing shorted pins using the same techinque as before: 30 gauge wire with flux, one pin at a time.

Interesting, if the FPGA isn't powered properly (1.1v and 2.5V), it does some crazy stuff with the IO pins.  Weird.

* `splat ftdi_new_device --write --serial SPLA_r009_b002`
  * Disconnect and reconnect.
  * Ok.

* `splat bringup_fpga`
  * LEDs flash as expected.

* Solder on an extra test pin to `TP9`.
  * Done.

* `splat bringup_boundary`
  * Scanned all pins with test wire.
  * `FIFO_WR_N` is still disconnected!  This seems like it might be a software glitch; it's really unlikely for two boards to have exactly the same single disconnected pin...

Picking this up tomorrow.
