# 2020-06-14

# More Bringup Woes.

Preivous attempts to get the FPGA working ran around on some confusion with the wakeup sequence.  However, debugging this devolved into flailing, since it *seemed* like there was an obvious solution, and none of them worked.

So, to add some rigor to the debugging process here: (_Tryhard mode: ACTIVATE_)

* Review Lattice datasheets for better understanding, and document this.
  Previosly I've encountered surprising details that weren't well-documented,
  which shifted my understanding of the system abruptly.
* Review Project Trellis bitstream code for insights that might be relevant.
* Simplify code, and develop some logging rigor to make sure I can reproduce
  interesting states.
* Develop a number of theories as to why it's not working.
* Disprove theories in detail, one at a time.

In retrospect, it would have been wise to set up the FPGA with more than one possible mode.  That might be hard to fit in a 4-layer board, though.

## Lattice sysCONFIG datasheet review

* Acronyms: Unsurprising.
* 1. Introduction
  * Detailed timing is in the ECP5 family datasheet.
* 2. Features
  * "Slave Serial" and "Slave SPI" are different things.  I'm using "Slave SPI", I think.
* 3. Definitions of Terms
  * "Programming" is altering the *external* source of configuration, "Configuring" is changing the internal configuration SRAM cells.  I'm not sure this is consistent elsewhere in the document.
  * "BIT" files are programming into nonvolatile memory directly -- which isn't useful to me since I'm using SPI Slave mode.
  * "User Mode": When running my image; ie, the state I can't get it into yet.
  * "Offline Mode": When user-mode is disabled and we're just configuring.  This is probably what I want.
  * "Direct Mode" / "Foreground Mode": Configuring, and all IO pins tri-stated.
    * Aside: these "modes" aren't necessarily mutually exclusive.
  * "Background Mode": Configuring, but IO pins are operational. (Maybe functioning normally, maybe pinholding).
  * "Transparent Mode": Configuring, but user mode active -- so we can be updating the CRAM while the device is active.  This implies that there's two copies of every CRAM bit; one that we're updating, and one that's actually participating in the function of the logic cell.
  * "Refresh": Either toggling the `PROGRAMN` pin, or sending the SSPI `REFRESH` command.  I'm not sure if it matters which I do, but it's worth investigating if SSPI mode expects to get the refresh command via that mechanism, and not by `PROGRAMN` toggling.  This seems unlikely to matter.
* 4. Configuration Details
  * "active configuration" here is described as "fuses", likely for the benefit of developers familiar with FPGAs that have actual fuses to program their configuration once.  Irrelevant to me.
  * 4.1 Bitstream / PROM size
    * I have the `LFE5U-45F`: Uncompressed bitstream size is 7.86 Mbit (~959 KiB) with no EBR, 9.74 Mbit (~1,158 KiB) with max EBR.  This is close to as observed from the open-source toolchain.
  * 4.2 Status Register
    * This is shifted out LSB first, which I'm reasonably sure I got right (since otherwise I'd get obvious nonsense values).
    * Bit 0 "Transparent mode": "not Transparent mode" perhaps implies "Offline mode".  This isn't stated explicitly.
    * Bit 9 "ISC Enable": "ISC" isn't defined here, so it's not clear what this means.  Plausibly "In-System Configuration".
    * Bit 29 "SED Error": Not clear what this is. "Single Error Detection" would be a CRC-related error.
    * Bit 30 "Bypass mode": No clue what Bypass mode means. I haven't observed this yet.
      * Note from later: This is for daisy-chaining, which I don't want, and should be off.
    * Bit 31 "Flow-through mode": Not sure what this is; probably for daisy-chaining configuration.  Ignore.
  * 4.3 Ports
    * SPCM is "Slave Parallel", SCM is "Slave Serial", but not SSPI "Slave SPI".
  * 4.4 sysCONFIG pins.
    * You have to take care to re-use the sysCONFIG pins as regular GPIO.  I'm not bothering, so I leave them dedicated. There's references here to meddling with the Lattice tools to declare this, but that's probably just to avoid PNR trying to use the pins.
    * Most of the pins have internal pull-ups, but some are recommended to have external pullups as well.  I should check if this is messed up by my LEDs.
    * `HOLDN` I ignored, but the internal pullup is probably fine.
    * `DOUT` I ignored, but it's just an output for daisy-chaining.  I re-used this pin for `ANALOG_R_OE`, but it's probably fine -- might cause some weird power behavior on the red ADC, but no funcitonal issues I think.
    * Pull-up resistor values in the comments seem arbitrary (1 Kohm, 4.7 Kohm, 10 Kohm).
  * 4.5 Dedicatd sysCONFIG pins.
    * `CFGMDN` pins sampled on rising edge of `INITN`, but they're hard-wired so it doesn't matter to me.
    * 4.7Kohm pullup is what I'd done, so that's fine.
    * JTAG port is always operational.
  * 4.6 `PROGRAMN` pin
    * Active-low, internal weak pullup (of ill-defined strength).
    * When asserted low, starts refresh sequence (ie, clearing configuration ram).  I haven't observed this explicitly yet, but it might be worth measuring via the scope.
    * Actual times are defined in family datasheet:
      * Names don't match: `T_PRGMJ` doesn't exist.  `T_PRGM` is min 110 ns, `T_PRGMRJ` (rejected) is max 50ns.  So, downward pulse must be greater that 110 ns to be reliably accepted; less than 50ns will be reliabily ignored, in between is unreliable.  No problems here.
      * `T_DPPINT` is max 70 ns, `T_DPPDONE` is max 80 ns.
      * `T_INIT` is probably `T_INITL`, which says it's low for max 55 ns (enough to clear all the sram bits).
      * All these times are so short that my host-based tools won't ever see the intermediate states -- it's ~milliseconds before they'll respond.  Should be fine.
    * 4.6.1 `INITN`
      * Bidirectional open-drain control pin.
      * Driven low by FGPA during refresh (implied?), released once it's ready for configuration.
      * Can be held down by other FPGAs to make them start up at the same time.
      * Later, driven low by FPGA if there's a configuration error.
      * This is potentially interesting, as it might block wake-up.
      * If `INITN` is high, I at least haven't hit an obvious configuration error.
    * 4.6.2 `DONE`
      * Bidirectional open-drain contron pin, weak pull-up.  High indicates User mode.
      * Driving this low externally can prevent wake-up.  (Idea: Sequencing should drive this high before finishing configuration?)
      * Aside: If this gets weirdly driven, might cause metastable behavior?  Unknown.
    * 4.6.3 `MCLK/CCLK`
      * I don't care about the various `MCLK` cases.
      * It's not clear if the FPGA expects a constantly-osciallating `CCLK`.  Probably not.
  * 4.7 Dual-purpose pins
    * 4.7.1 `HOLDN`: Don't care. If this was wrong, no configuration operations would work.
    * 4.7.2 `DOUT`: Apparently enabled by "Bypass" mode, for daisy-chained configuration.  This isn't useful to me, so I never want Bypass mode enabled.
    * 4.7.3 `CSN`: Ok.
    * 4.7.4 `CS1N`: Not enabled in SSPI mode.
    * 4.7.5 `WRITEN`: Not enabled in SSPI mode.
    * 4.7.6 `MOSI`: Ok.
    * 4.7.7 `MISO`: Ok.
    * 4.7.8 `D[7:0]`: Not enabled in SSPI mode.
    * 4.7.9 `IO[3:0]`: Not enabled in SSPI mode.
    * 4.7.10 `PERSISTENT`: Internal control bits that determine how the ports are handled.  Determines whether `MOSI` / `MISO` / `CSN` are left as sysCONFIG port, or switched to GPIO.  Doesn't say what the defaults are, or how to change them.
  * 4.8 JTAG pins
    * Ignore all this for now.
* 5. Configuration Process and Flow
  * No particular power sequencing is required (in SSPI mode; MSPI needs the flash to be stable before the FPGA reads it, obviously).
  * Sequence:
    * `INITN` and `DONE` are driven low, and the FPGA clears itself.
    * `INITN` is released to high, and we enter configuration mode.
    * Write all the configuration SRAM.
    * Wake-up.
    * `DONE` is released to high, and we enter user mode.
  * This all seems fine.
  * 5.1 Power-up sequence
    * Similar to before, not interesting.
  * 5.2 Initialization
    * `INITN` must be pulled high by an external resistor.  This might have issues with the LEDs I'm using.
    * More details in here might be worth reviewing.
  * 5.3 Configuration
    * "If `INITN` is asserted low, an error has occurred". Ok.
  * 5.4 Wake-up
    * This is where I have problems currently.
    * There's a fixed four-phase wake-up sequence, which can be configured by the user (How?).
      * Global Set/Reset (`GSR`)
        * Logic flops are set or reset based on CRAM.
      * Global Output Enable (`GOE`)
        * Output IOs are driven.  Inputs are always available.
      * External `DONE`
        * "An external agent that holds the `DONE` pin low prevents the wake-up process of the FPGA from proceeding."
        * "Only after the external `DONE`, if enabled, is active high does the final wake-up phase complete."
        * "Wake-up completes uninterrupted if the external `DONE` pin is disabled."
          * Diabling external `DONE` might help here -- but how's that done?
      * Global Write Disable (`GWDISn`)
        * Prohibits writes to internal block ram; released during wakeup.
    * Assertion of the internal DONE bit causes this state machine to start.
    * Nothing in here implies that wake-up clocks from `CCLK` are required, but that still might be so.
  * 5.5 User Mode
    * Stays in user mode until either `PROGRAMN` is toggled, `REFRESH` command received, or power cycle.
  * 5.6 Clearing configruation etc: Not interesting.
  * 5.7 Reconfiguration Priority
    * JTAG first, then `PROGRAMN` toggle, then others.
* 6. Configuration Modes.
  * 6.1. Master SPI: Skip.
  * 6.2. Slave SPI
    * "It is necessary to send a `REFRESH` command to load a new external flash image into the configuration SRAM."
      * Is it? Even the first time after power-on?
    * In Background mode, only read operations are permitted.  This won't be what I want.
    * Input is read from `MOSI` on the rising edge of `CCLK`. Ouput is valid on `MISO` on the falling edge of `CCLK`.
      * Pretty sure I got this right in the MPSSE setup, by brute-force.
    * "Lattice provides SSPIEmbeeded to insulate you from the complexity..." Yeah, sure.
    * 6.2.1. Method to enable SSPI
      * Must use `CFGMDN`, which I am.
      * Enabling SPI port persistence.  It's not clear how to do this.
        * SPI port is read-only once in user mode.  This might be reflected in the status register `WRITE` bit, not said here.
    * 6.2.2. Specifications and Timing
      * Opcodes are sent MSB-first, but results are read LSB-first.  Odd.
    * 6.2.3. Slave SPI Port AC Timing Requirements
      * Max clock is 33 MHz, but there's no minimum.
    * Command table
      * Not sure what "LSC" prefix is for (plausibly "Lattice Semiconductor Corporation")
      * Lots of these I don't care about (fuses, encryption, etc).
      * `LSC_PROG_SED_CRC`: Programs the "CRC based on configuration bits only".  Different kind of CRC.
      * I still need to go through the commands in detail.
    * 6.2.4. Slave SPI Configuration Flow
      * Diagram shows using `ISC_BITSTREAM_BURST`, rather than `ISC_PROG_INCR_RTI`.  Probably this doesn't matter, but it's worth trying.
      * This shows explicit `ISC_ENABLE` and `ISC_DISABLE` commands.
      * This might not show the wake-up sequence.
    * 6.2.5. Command Waveforms.
      * Got this already.
      * Class D commands (`CLEAR` and `REFRESH`) are self-timed, and don't need clocks outisde chip-select.
  * 6.3. Slave Parallel Mode.  Ignore.
  * 6.4. Slave Serial Mode.  Ignore.
  * 6.5. JTAG mode.  Ignore for now.
  * 6.6. TransFR Operation.  Ignore.
* 7. Software Selectable Options.
  * These must show up in the bitstream somehow, but it's not documented.
  * Ignore for now.
* 8. Device Wake-Up Sequence
  * There's only two valid sequences:
    * "4": DONE pin goes high first.
    * "21": DONE pin goes high last.
  * 8.1. Wake-up signals: Unsurprising.
  * 8.2. Wake-up clock source
    * Why is this the first time the datasheet mentions a wake-up clock source?
    * Defaults to internal clock, but can also use an external free-running clock source.
    * YoSYS doesn't seem to support the START module.
* 9. Daisy Chaining.  Ignore.
  * Bypass and Flow-through options are involved here.
* Appendix A. Slave SPI Programming Guide.  Useless.
* Appendix B. Bitstream Format
  * Why does this use `LSC_WRITE_EBR`, which isn't mentioned anywhere else in the doc?
  * Bitstream always ends with a 32-bit `DUMMY` command -- maybe that's necessary for wake-up.
* Appendix C. Slave SPI / Slave Flash.  Not useful?
* Appendix D. Master SPI Daisy Chaining.  Ignore.
* Appendix E. Slave SPI Daisy Chaining.  Ignore.
