# 2020-09-05

# Board `b003` Manufacturing Testing.

In lieu of making a decision on the sockets, I've just soldered the `PPU1` and `PPU2` chips directly onto board B003.

Running `bringup_ppu` makes the chips drive the VBLANK and HBLANK signals in a pretty reasonable fashion.  Success!  This is a major milestone; all the hardware appears to work as expected.

I'm currently using a 12MHz clock (directly from the FTDI) because I haven't worked out the PLL settings yet, but the chips appear to work fine with a slower clock (should be 21.47727MHz for correct NTSC output).
The scope measures the VBLANK signal of 33.5791Hz, and a HBLANK signal of 8.79793kHz.  This is almost exactly 1:262, which sounds reasonable: 262 scan lines per frame.  Officiall NTSC is supposed to have 262.5 lines per field for interlacing, but I'm not sure of the timing details for the SNES.  Exact measurements are better done by the FPGA anyhow.

Interestingly, the HBLANK and VBLANK signals seem to be offset by four master clock cycles (HBLANK switches four cycles after VBLANK).  This might be an interesting discovery, or an artifact of my setup.  It's possible

One concern is the amount of bounce of the HBLANK signal:  The PPU slams the signal down, and it rings really badly for some time (~4-10 master clock cycles).  The second peak is pretty high, maybe high enough to trigger some metastability issues in the FPGA.  I'll need to be careful with that, or else add a filter (somehow).  No clue what the other signals look like yet, but making great progress.
