# 2020-02-16

Schematics for the PPU / VRAM page are essentially done, although I'll probably
want to tweak some of the way I've hooked up the reset circuitry.
Interestingly in the original SNES board, the CIC releases PPU2 from reset,
which then releases PPU1, the CPU, and everything else via some internal
sequencing.  This will take some investigation.

In other news, I'm still trying to figure out what actual parts to use
everywhere.  For the FPGA, the iCE40HX4k-TQFP144 would plausibly work, and be
pretty easy to solder.  However, it's 1.2V, the pins aren't 5V tolerant, and it
only has 107 IOs which might not be quite enough once I've pulled in the analog
components.  Getting more pins generally requires a BGA -- the HX8K dev board
has a caBGA with 256 pins, which is plenty, but then I have to hand-solder a
BGA.  I also have to consider if I can make this work with fewer PCB layers; I
figure I'm already needing six or so at least.  I don't have great intuition on
how much more expensive that gets; JLPCB seems to imply that going from 4
layers to 6 is ~3x the cost.

Even if I have enough pins, I might still have throughput issues.  At the least
I need to do some back-of-the-envelope estimation of data rate.  If I'm close
but not quite close enough, it's plausible to stall the clock only during
`HBLANK`, where the chip is less likely sensitive to being stalled (ie, there's
no analog output).  I'm still shooting for full-speed, but I'm not sure I can
make it without things getting unreasonably complicated -- ie, USB 3.0 and
multiple FPGAs with backing discrete memory.

I've been looking at the AD9200 as a pretty-good ADC; 10-bit depth (which is
more than necessary) and 20Msps is more than sufficient.  But, it's a bit
pricey, and I need a bunch more output pins.  Need to update my pinmap with
changes from the PPU layout, since I realized I got a few things wrong there.
Fortunately it can handle 5V, which lots of other chips can't, thus leading us
to:

Level shifting, which is another big problem.  TI has a bunch of chips
("Voltage Level Translation Guide") that generally say "up to 380 Mbps", so the
delay through the level shifter isn't likely to be a problem -- but it's a lot
of chips to include, and lengthens the traces too.  There's also way more
analog stuff here than I'm comfortable I can get right.  It might be possible
to do some braindead discrete-transitor mush, but that's even harder to get
right -- except that I can test for it on a breadboard.  Might be worth a shot.

More generally, I have to deal with these voltage levels:

*   5V from USB, which is fed directly into the PPU and VRAM chips.
*   3.3V for the FTDI chip, which also needs 1.8V (but has its own internal
    regulator for it).
*   1.2V for the FGPA, probably.
*   Whatever the analog output provides, which is arbitrary and weird.

Another idea is to do away with the FPGA entirely, and try to build the thing
with discrete chips and maybe a microcontroller to boss things around.  This is
probably a non-starter -- but using an FPGA isn't technically a requirement
(even though it's convenient and fun).

And one last issue: I need some simple git-based bug tracker to handle all
these above issues clearly.
