# 2020-05-30

## Bringup Phase 3: FPGA

I can now get the FPGA to respond to lots of different commands.  There's some weird ambiguity between what Project Lattice does, and what the Lattice sysCONFIG datasheet specifies.  

I think that the bitstream-in-SPI-eeprom format differs slightly from the SPI Slave configuration.

An interesting detail is that loading the bitstream definitely gets the FPGA's gates working: The power usage rises from ~30mA / 0.6W to ~120mA / 1.44W while loading the bitstream, and the chip surface temperature reaches 41C a minute or two after fully loading.  This seems like a positive sign, as it's doing something that at least sounds right.

However!  Once the bitstream is fully loaded, I release the chip from reset, and ... nothing happens.  Sigh.  The `PROGRAM` LED turns off, as expected, and `INIT` is moderately dim (1.969V, compare to 3.25V nominal), and `DONE` is dim (1.833V).  Both of these signals ought to be digital, but I'm not sure which are being driven and which are just open-drain or hi-z.  (The difference in brightness is probably the bogus pullup on `INIT`, which I ought to take off maybe.)  `D7` and `D8` are definitely at 0V, so the RTL it's not driving them properly.

Theories:

* RTL uses the wrong clock (external clock `clk_12mhz` isn't working somehow).
* RTL is messed up some other way. (Verify with verilator).
* I should be using the Lattice-recommended `LSC_BITSTREAM_BURST` instead of `LSC_PROG_INCR_RTI`, as Project Lattice generates by default.
* Board wiring is holding DONE / `INIT` wrongly, which inhibits the switch to user mode.  Might be able to override this by driving from FTDI chip directly.
* I'm missing some important step in the bitstream, which I'm not replicating properly in the `load_bitstream` code.
* I'm missing some step in the finalization of the bitstream programming.
* I've borked the image details somehow (even though the CRC matches).
* I'm running `ecppack` wrong, and generating a bad bitstream.
