# 2020-05-12

My first boards arrived today (a day early, in fact). At first glance, everything looks good:

* Board is mostly clean and clear; there's one spot of manufacturing-related gunk on the bottom (near `U28`/`U29`). I couldn't remove this easily with isopropyl alcohol, and when I tried, some of the soldermask came up. I suspect this is a patch to fix a soldermask glitch on this one board; it seems ok on two other boards. However, this is one of the finest-trace-spacing areas on the board, so kudos to whoever in Discord suggested to space out buses where possible -- this would be a bigger deal otherwise. I think this is just cosmetic; it's next to `U28` but not close enough to affect the pads. I've put a bit of Kapton tape over the spot, just to be sure.

* Quality of the silkscreen is very good; excellent resolution and no major glitches. The only problem there is the broad area around the probably-not-necessary electrolyric capacitors, which is uneven and chipped slightly. Not a big concern. I've put paper between the other four boards to avoid this, but I'll probably edit it out of future board designs. THere's also one or two very fine scratches from handling; not a concern.

* Edge finish is _surprisingly_ good. I'd expected to need to sand the edges of the board, since V-cut grooves are sometimes roughly-edged -- but this is much better quality than I'd expected.

* Ther's no soldermask between the fine-pitch pins -- everything except the VRAM chips, in fact. This is exactly what's in the gerber files, in fact, which I had noticed but not really internalized. I think that's conventional anyway, since it's hard to get soldermask to fit between narrow pins. I'll have to use a bunch of flux to help the solder stick to the pins. Fortunately the soldermask is between the pads of the FPGA, though, which is more likely important.

* Small (0.2mm) vias look fine on casual inspection, no obvious problems. The power regulator vias appear to be partially filled with solder, which is ok since I'd be filling them myself anyhow. The 0402 pads on the back side of the FPGA also did this, which should be fine. Drill and layer registration isn't exceptional, but good enough.

* HASL over pads looks fine in most places. This might be a problem for the BGA, though, since it's visibly clear that the HASL surface isn't very flat. This might be ok, but could cause issues for FPGA making all the connections. I don't have a good way to figure this out, so once I'm ready to get the FPGA on, I'll need to get some sort of boundary test worked out. Plausibly I can have an Arduino-based square wave generator, and program the FPGA to sense when there's a signal on each pin, and report via UART to the FTDI chip.

* None of the fine-trace-spacing areas seem to have issues (aside from the above patchy bit), even the awkwardly-small bits on the back of PPU1.

* It's really annoying to take brightly-lit photos of shiny objects.

Next step: Bringup!
