# 2020-02-19

I've fixed a bunch of minor issues with the schematic, but more work will
depend on deciding on parts.

The general theme here I think is to build one board that I'm reasonably sure I
can get working -- but that doesn't have the full complexity of the board I
eventually want. This is fine for experimentation, and I'll be able to figure
out what I *really* need on the board.

I've (accidentally) found the Japanese-language datasheet for the BA9562F,
which is the original SNES video encoder chip. Looks like only the `R/G/B`
signals are actually analog, and the `~BURST` and `~CSYNC` are just digital.
I'll have to confirm that on an actual SNES, but that's a simplifying
assumption I'm happy to make for now. Also a [random
commenter](https://forums.nesdev.com/viewtopic.php?t=16192) says "Both VGA and
the SNES emit video in a linear sense, and expect the CRT itself to apply the
only gamma correction at all."  This is also convenient, as I can probably get
away with a smaller ADC (or at least drop bits from the values). 10-bit or
12-bit will more than suffice, I think. That adds more pins, though.

Speaking of pins, my clumsy spreadsheet math indicates that I need to sample at
least 121 bits (136 with optionals) -- which puts me (un)comfortably outside
the range of a reasonable TQFP package. BGA it is, but at least I'll have a ton
of IO pins. That said, I still want to stick with a relatively small BGA, which
I've got slightly more of a chance of hand-soldering correctly. Honestly the
caBGA-256 on the HX8K evaluation board will probably be about right. It's also
possible to get the ECP5 in a caBGA-256 package, and it has a *lot* more
internal ram.

Also an annoying discovery: The FT2232HL only support synchronous FIFO mode on
bank A, and using it disables bank B entirely -- and the FT4232H doesn't *have*
a synchronous FIFO mode; just UARTS and MPSSE. So my idea for handling the
reset logic on bank B is hosed. However, a clever workaround: I can switch
modes from host software, so I startup the board with everything held in reset
by weak pulldown resistors, and drive the FPGA's CRESET high and dump the image
into it from bank B in MPSSE/SPI mode. Then I have the FPGA wire an IO pin to
its own CRESET, so it can latch itself high, and switch the FTDI chip into
synchronous FIFO mode -- which I'm wildly assuming will Hi-Z all the bank B
pins. This is hacky, but ought to work, and I can reset the FPGA by switching
back to MPSSE mode and driving CRESET low again. I don't think I care to
support an onboard SPI flash chip for this version (except for the FTDI chip
because it's easy and cheap). The next revision of the board can use a Cypress
CYUSB301X, which has a 32-bit 100MHz interface, and supports USB SuperSpeed
(which is plenty fast enough) -- not yet, because that setup is way more
complicated to work with.

## Other topics

Kor had a vaguely interesting idea for compressing the data: since the signal
is repeating every 1/30th second, have the FPGA compress the data with a
huffman table and upload to the host, where the host software decompresses it.
Then, the host software computes a better huffman table, and sends it back to
the FPGA for the next try. This can adaptively compress the partially-known
signal pretty well, most probably. Worth a shot maybe.

Another of Kor's good ideas is to layout pads for an big asynchronous SRAM,
which in principle means I can collect all the (compressed) data to the SRAM,
and then ship it out over USB as slowly as I want. This is a good idea, but
requires some layout complications. If I've got a 256-pin BGA, then I can
easily afford the IOs.

On the Gigabit Ethernet front, I found a project that built [an FPGA-based
Gigabit Ethernet interposer](https://mindchasers.com/dev/darsena-hw-spec). Just
looking at the board demonstrates that the Gigabit Ethernet hardware isn't so
terrible -- the physical connector, a magnetics package, transceiver chip, and
a hookup to the FPGA's SERDES blocks (which would need the ECP5-5G, I think).
This doesn't say anything about how complicated the FPGA side RTL is, though.
Good to know, but not yet.

Chris F. also mentions that if it were him, he'd hook up the
transistor-amplifier bits from the SNES board so it's possible to hook up to an
actual TV. That's probably a good idea, in fact -- and I might need the
amplifier to provide enough current to satisfy the ADC chips (which I haven't
selected yet).

## Reset Logic

For bringup, I want to have jumpers to power and/or reset each stage
individually:

*   USB to FTDI power -- break out so I can power from a bench supply (until I
    know I'm under the 500mA limit).
*   LDO and FTDI: always-on power and come out of reset immediately; this part
    is easy.
*   FPGA: weird trick mentioned above. Weak pulldown, probably jumpered so I
    can test if it's unnecessary. Also jumper the IO-to-CRESET pin trick, in
    case that fails miserably. Once the FPGA is up, it controls power / reset
    for the rest of the chips, through some sort of power switch transistor
    mumble? If not, jumpers for now.
*   VRAM chips: Probably wise to be able to power these separately, so I can
    bring them up without the PPU chips. Also it's nice to be able to write the
    VRAM directly with the PPU chips in reset.
*   PPU2: Technically speaking, the CIC chip releases PPU2 from reset, which
    then (sometime later maybe) releases PPU-1 via `RESET0` and then the rest
    of the machine via `RESET1` (64C816 CPU, Work RAM, Cartridge slot, Sound
    Chips SMP and DSP, and the expansion port).  For bringup I want to be able
    to sample both signals, and control the reset manually -- but I eventually
    want to wire `PPU2_RESET0` directly to `PPU1_RESET` to get the exact right
    reset timing.  Jumpering this is easy.
*   ADCs: THe analog components can come up any time after the FPGA, but might
    need some time to stabilize.  If so, this can go before PPUs easily enough.

In theory I can power everything from the same 5V input rail, with 3.3V LDO for
the FTDI chip and FPGA IO banks, and 1.2V for the FPGA core.  FTDI also needs
1.8V for its core, but has its own built-in regulator for that.  Aside from a
ton of level shifters for the FPGA-to-SNES-stuff chips, this is pretty
straight-forward.

However, all the above need to have jumpers to apply pullup and pulldown
resistors, and the things past the FPGA also need a connection for the FPGA to
drive their reset.  Doable, but mildly touchy.  It's probably worth figuring
out a reasonable set of intermediate steps in the bringup process, and making
sure the jumperable configurations make sense for that.
