# 2020-05-24

FPGA bringup.  Soldering on the FPGA manually was tricky, and I'm not sure I've done so correctly: It's definitely attached firmly, but I was expecting to see the solder balls on the edge melt entirely, and they didn't -- possibly it's not sufficiently attached.  I might need to reflow later.

I'm not sure if I'm seeing any life from the chip.  Previously `DONE` was very dim, and `INIT` was slightly dim -- but on a power cycle, `DONE` is bright`, even once I've set all the FTDI IO pins into hi-z.  Chip doesn't respond to SPI, though.

For some reason the FTDI code to write a bitstream (even though I'm not sure the chip is receiving it) is very very slow -- several minutes for a ~1MiB image.  Something's wrong there as well.

So, summary:

Board comes up in a semi-consistent state:

* `D3` off (low).
* `D4` (`PROGRAM`) off (3.255V).
* `D5` (`DONE`) on (high).
* `D6` (`INIT`) on, but dim (1.936V).

This looks like all pins in hi-z (ie, no change after running `ftdi_hiz`), which is what I'd ideally expect.  However, this doesn't match the state I expect to see, based on the ECP5 sysCONFIG datasheet, which is that both `DONE` and `INIT` are low briefly (~50ms), at power on, and then the chip senses the `CFG` pins and goes into SPI Slave configuration mode, pulling `INITN` high.

`HOLDN` has an internal pullup during configuration (sysCONFIG Table 4.4), so leaving that disconnected is probably safe.

Another thing that's obviously wrong: Attempting to toggle `D3` and `PROGRAM` together (which given board wiring, should have then opposite state) makes `D3` flash, which can't be right.  I had this happen before, and fixed it by accident -- but I'm not sure how, and it's broken again.  This might be a symptom of the problem; I don't think the FTDI chip should be doing this -- possibly there's some distrubance in the power system.

Theories and possible solutions:

* Bad soldering of the BGA.  This is the most likely problem.
  * Reflow the chip with hot air station (again).
  * Remove and reinstall the chip (this chip, or a new one).
  * Reflow the whole board with 
* Messed up voltage divider on `INITN` is confusing the chip.
* Bug software does confusing things to FTDI chip, and gets FPGA in a bad state.
* FPGA isn't sensing the configuration pins correctly.
* `HOLD` ought to be pulled high, but isn't (unlikely).
* Something's wrong in the FTDI EEPROM configuration.

Another detail about the BGA: Tested the output temperature of the hot air station with K-type thermocouple (which I also had to fix because the wire was loose, which is why I didn't think it worked before).  When the hot air station heats up to 350 C, it only reached ~275 C, and dropped to ~230 C after a minute or two.  This definitely isn't enough to melt lead-free solder, which is ~280 C.  So, it's very plausible that I never got the chip hot enough to reflow properly, because I was wary of overheating the chip.  Irony.
