# 2020-01-22

Added a pinmap reformatted out of the two PDFs I have.  It's not clear exactly
how many signals I need to tap into -- but there's more than 100, even taking
into account the shared signals between the two chips (which I only need to tap
once, obviously).

A potentially bigger problem is the data rate I can expect off each of these
signals.  Many of them are infrequently changing (`/RESET`), some change often
(all the data addresses), and some are very high rate (video output at the NTSC
dot clock rate, 3.58MHz.  The `XIN` clock runs at the CPU speed, ~21MHz, and I
might need to sample things up to that fast.  This is quite a lot of data,
worst case.

An alternative, if the PPU chips are static logic (still don't know) would be
to clock the entire chip slowly, and multiplex the various signals into the
FPGA with external muxes.  In that case, I can clock once, sample all the
signals, and shift the bits back into the FPGA slowly.  I can even slow it down
for the PC to pull the data out via SPI/USB or something.

This is slower, but it'd work -- provided that the PPU chips are actually
static logic.  If they're dynamic logic (very plausible given the fixed clock
rate of NTSC), then they might not work at all at lower clock rates.

In any event, I'd prefer to shoot for high-speed data injestion, simply because
we'll need to run lots of test vectors on the board and I don't want to take
forever to do so.

This whole thing is bascially writing a very complicated in-board digital
logical analyzer.  Neat.
