# 2020-03-08

Soldering practice went well, except that the decade counter chip is almost
definitely bad -- 555 timer works, but decade counter doesn't respond to the
clock.  Might be something wrong with my soldering that isn't obvious, or the
chip was bad when I got it, or I killed it some how.  Dunno.

In other news: turns out the footprint I picked out at random for the SNES
chips is just barely wrong: it's 0.65mm pitch, but the actual chips are 0.635.
Easy to mess up, and close enough that it'd probably work out in practice, but
it's better to have an exactly matching footprint -- which means I have to draw
my own.

Also, the wizard doesn't seem to handle rectangular QFPs very well at all.

Cribbing from the `QFP-100_14x20mm_P0.635mm` footprint, I need these bits:

*   Provided info.
*   F.Cu: Pads. Drawn on F.Cu, shows up on F.Paste and F.Mask as well.
*   F.SilkS: Silkscreen details (edges of chip for placement, pin 1 marking).
*   F.CrtYd: Courtyard lines, showing chip physical extents.

Getting all the numbers right is the tricky part. It is tremendously
inconvenient that KiCad does everything in metric, because there's so much junk
historically in metric (or at least 25.8mm metric inches).

I'm also not sure if the SOP-28 package for the VRAM chips is correct.

After fooling with the footprint editor for a bit: This is touchy, and honestly
the best way to set this up is in a script that calculates all the right values
(hence the footprint wizard plugins).  I'll come back to the footprint later;
for now there's other work to do (and the current one isn't too far wrong).
