# 2020-08-29

Assembled the first of the new boards today (revision `010`), with a variety of new techniques:

The big change for this assembly was to use a solder paste stencil, and assemble the entire board at once.  This _mostly_ worked out ok, except that the back-side components make it hard to apply the solder paste on the front side, since I couldn't get the stencil to lay flat properly.  The outcome of this is that the back-side 0.5mm chips were no sweat (except for one that was misplaced and needed some judicious fiddling), but the FTDI and ADC chips were a huge pain, since there was too much solder paste and everything bridged.  I eventually tore the FTDI chip off the board, failed to clean it up, and just tossed it and got another one.  I haven't tested this yet, but at least it doesn't look _obviously_ wrong.

I did assemble the analog block this time, but I'm not going to try to get it working any time soon.  We'll see if that ends up mattering.

For this version I opted for lead-free solder paste, which I find that I like quite a bit more -- I've heard that people find it annoying because it doesn't wet as well, and takes higher termperatures, but that didn't seem to be a problem for me.  (It's very possible that my "leaded" solder is actually a cheap fake, and is bascially poor-quality lead-free.  Dunno yet.  I could check the melting temperature, were I so inclined.)  Oddly, I had no trouble getting shiny solder joints with lead-free, which is exactly the opposite of what I'd been led to believe (ie, that lead-free is a real pain to do, and the joints won't be shiny).

I also (re) discovered that I *still* have some capacitors whose packages don't match their footprints -- `0402` on a `0603` footprint.  This isn't problematic to work with, but it's irksome.

The stencil does have openings for the BGA pads, which might add more solder to them than is really necessary.  I did miss five pads, since the solder paste got stuck in the stencil.  We'll see if those did get connected properly or not.

I'd reworked the manufacturing helper script for the new boards, and immediately discovered that I'd got it wrong: It's more important to separate components by side-of-board, then value / package, then board region.  As is, I ended up jumping around and scattering component bags all over.  Lessons learned for next time.

Now, on to testing (and fixing the inevitable manufacturing errors).
