# 2020-06-18

FPGA bringup is (finally!) complete -- at least, in the sense that I've finally figured out what what going wrong the with the FPGA before.  I'd almost settled on "I overheated the FPGA and broke it".

The recommended way to use the Slave SPI configuration mode is to use Lattice's (not-easily-automateable) "Deployment Tool" to convert the bitstream into a pair of "algo" and "data" files, and pass those to the SSPIEmbedded code.  This is a big blob of embedded-style C code which parses some wacky opcode format -- but in exactly such a way that you can't learn anything from the code.  This is violently user-hostile, since there's no way to understand what's actually going on with the protocol the chip actually uses.  Purportedly Lattice does this to "insulate developers from the complexity", but I've my doubts -- it's a very effective way of obfuscating the actual operational details of the chip.  If Lattice was just trying to make things easier, then there's no reason to not document all the details (which notably, they did only barely).

So, just experimentally, I pasted the Lattic SSPIEmbedded code into my project, and hacked in the few bits to attach it to my SPI code.

And of course, it worked the first time.  A considerable amount of expletives followed.

There's some subtlety in the way the deployment tool sets up the "algo" stream, which drives some details of the SSPI protocol in ways I didn't expect.  Let's examine those briefly, with the help of a seperately-hacked copy of SSPIEmbedded that shows what it's expecting.

Curiously, some operations are only three bytes, despite the sysCONFIG datasheet specifying at least four bytes (8-bit opcode, 1-bit CRC flag, 23-bit argument).  Hacking this to always be four bytes also works; I presume that the Lattice developers just know that they don't always need all four bytes to make the operation happen.  Cheating a bit, I think.

Sequence of operations:
* Empty transaction.  No idea why this is here; possibly as an early check of the SPI backend.
* `[e0000000] READ_ID`: Read the chip id, `0x41112043` (ie, `LFE5U-45F`), which the algo verifies (since there's no portability between different chips.
* `[c6000000] ISC_ENABLE`: Enables the offline configuration mode.
* Wait for 1ms.  This isn't specified in the datasheet; I'm guessing that offline mode takes some cycles to engage.  I've sorta noticed this with `ISC_DISABLE`, which didn't always seem to happen immediately.
* `[3c000000] READ_STATUS`: Mask with some bits (`[00024040]`), and check that they're all zero.  Probably checking for errors. Returned value is `[00000e00]`.
* `[0e010000] ISC_ERASE`: Erase the configuration SRAM.  I'm not sure why the argument is set to `0x010000`; this isn't mentioned in the datasheet.
* Wait for 200ms, so the erase can complete.
* `[46000000] LSC_INIT_ADDRESS`: Set the address register to zero.  I don't know why this is necessary, given that `ISC_BITSTREAM_BURST` just programs the entire bitstream at once.
* `[7a000000] ISC_BITSTREAM_BURST`: Program the entire bitstream.  Followed by 1032325 bytes of bitstream data, which is a strange number because it doesn't match the raw frames size: 9470 * 109 bytes per frame == 1032230 bytes, which is 95 bytes too many, but too few to add data per frame, or for the bits-per-frame padding.  I'm not sure how the Lattice Deployment Tool has fiddled with the bitstream here.
* Wait for 10ms. Not sure why.
* `[3c000000] READ_STATUS`: Checking for errors again, most likely.  Returned value is `[00200f00]`.
* `[26000000] ISC_DISABLE`: Disable the configuration, which I guess is necessary to enter user mode.
* Wait 200ms.  No idea -- this seems like an awfully long time to wait.
* `[ffffffff] NOP`: Clock in a bunch of extra NOPs.

All this is surrounded by my own `ecp5_reset` and `ecp5_release_reset`, and the FPGA doesn't actually begin wake-up (or raise the `DONE` pin) until after the the `PROGRAMN` pin is released to high.

Also curiously: the linear ramp in power usage that I observed previously doesn't happen with this programming method -- that implies that's I'd somehow fubar'd the internal state of the chip pretty badly. I haven't the slightest idea how that's possible.  With the working method, power is stable at ~40mA (~0.48W) for the entire operation.

Most of the above operations are easy to implement myself -- but I'll need to check that I can rearrange the bitstream from the format that Project Trellis's `decppack` dumps out.  I think I can ignore bitstream compression; it only takes ~4.5s (~224 KiBps) to load a bitstream, and I can probably improve that pretty easily.  A few quick experiments shows that increasing the SPI frequenty is only worth ~200ms, so it's possibly the lack of decent batching of operations in my hack with SSPIEmbedded.
