# 2020-09-04

# Board `b003` Manufacturing Testing (continued).

I'm now almost ready to get the PPU chips on the board.

THe PPU chips don't have perfectly clean leads; they've got some remaining solder left on, and a bit of flux (which I mostly cleaned off, but not entirely).

The socket have alignment pins, and mechanical solder joints to make it more ridigly attached -- neither of which I'd planned for, and don't have on the board.  Plausibly, the 100 soldered sping pins will be enough to hold the socket in place, but if not, I can maybe super-glue the corners in place.

I think the plastic used for the sockets is high-temperature, but I don't want to risk melting them with the hot air station.  So, probably wiser to use the soldering iron, painstakingly.  This is still tricky because the pins on the ends of each side (near the corners) are very close to the plastic casing, and it'll be hard to get the soldering iron in there.

Another thing to consider is whether I should try using solder paste or solder wire.  I can't get the stencil on anymore (since the other parts will prevent it from lying flat), so I'd have to do it manually, which has been problematic in the past.  I could add a bunch of flux gel, which ought to help avoid bridges, but it's probably too hard to get the amount of paste correct.

Should I solder the socket one with a chip in it, and the springs compressed, or not?  Hard to say.  Most likely the typical manufacturing sequence assumes that the socket is empty for reflow.

*   Put a PPU chip in a loose socket, and test connectivity of all 100 pins.  Probably I don't need to test both chips.
*   Place the socket on the board, and tape down with kapton tape.
*   Tack down one pin on each side near the middle (easy to reach) to keep it in place.
*   Solder all pins one at a time with solder iron.  Use plenty of flux gel.
*   Test for mechanical stability (carefully).  If insufficient, superglue in place (and hope to never need to remove the socket).
*   Test for connectivity and bridges from pads to spring pins, individually
*   Repeat `bringup_boundary --levelshifter1` and `bringup_boundary --levelshifter2` with tapping spring pins.

## Loose socket testing

This was unsuccessful: Many of the pins don't make electrical connection to the corresponding spring pin.  This could be just that the socket needs to have the lid closed to make proper contact (which then makes it impossible to test, as the lid covers the leads), or that the PPU pins are to corroded or dirty (with older solder + flux) to make a good contact.

However, I suspect that the actual reason is that the the plastic packaging on the PPU chip is too thick (2.72mm +/- 0.1mm) for what the socket's designed for.  When pressed on manually, the spring pins bend downwards towards the chip body, but not at all when I put a PPU chip in place.  I'd expect at least that closing the lid would compress the chip leads against the socket's spring pins, but the spring pins don't seem to be under any pressure, and the corner clamps don't fit all the way down.  Suspicious.

According to the datasheet, this specific socket is `IC149-100-005-B5`, which supports a QFP-100 IC with a total height (bottom of leads to top of plastic) of 2.90mm, and I've measured the SNES PPU chips at 2.85mm - 3.00mm (it's hard to measure with the leads being a bit flexible.  The next step up, `IC149-100-014-B5`, support up to 3.5mm.

## Conclusions

This whole thing is ambiguous enough that I don't want to risk wrecking the chips or sockets.  So, for now, I'll defer the sockets to a later board build, and just hard-solder these chips on B003.  The real value of the sockets is in testing scavanged chips which might or might not work, and testing them without needing to build a board and solder them down.

However, for the first board, having reliable solder connections is more valuable, especially since I don't know for sure how the chips work (from a digital perspective).
