# 2020-06-24

FPGA Bringup continues:  The last step is to verify that all of the FPGA pins are connected properly under the FPGA -- which in industry one might do with an x-ray machine that costs more than my house. Lacking such budget, I've come up with a different idea: set all the pins as inputs, and manually drive a ~100kHz signal into each connected net one at a time, and collect the results. This also has the advantage of simultaneously checking for bridges and for disconnected pins.

I'd originally planned to do this with some simple sketch on an Arduino, but that turns out to be more troublesome than I'd expected: most Arduino boards are 5V, not 3.3V, and the ECP5 isn't 5V-tolerant. Even if it weren't I could only easily get a wobbly ~70 kHz signal with the microcontroller there. There's some more complicated "high-speed PWM" stuff I could try, but then it's not simple anymore.

Instead, I can drive a 3.3V signal from one of the test points on the FPGA itself, which will work fine.

I can already confirm that some of the pins are already connected correctly:

* From being able to program any image at all: `PROGRAMN`, `INITN`, `SPI_CSB`, `SPI_CLK`, `SPI_MOSI`, `SPI_MISO`
* From early bringup images: `clk_12mhz`, `led7`, `led8`, `uart_tx` (aka `fifo_d[1]`), `tp7`, `tp8`, `tp9`

Building out the RTL (`brinup_boundary.v`) and matching `splat` command (`bringup_boundary`) was fairly straightforward. The driver is pretty trivial, and the sensor (one for each pin) just does some clock synchronization and debouncing and hysteresis, so we can detect the incoming signal reliably.

I'd wanted to do something clever with sending only changes down the UART, and backed off to just sending an entire 176-bit frame at 10Hz, which worked fine.

Curiously this image takes up some 36% of the LUTs in the FPGA, which sounds wrong since it's not that much functionality. In fairness it's probably not implemented efficiently, but it doesn't really have to be.

The `splat` command in turn just parses the frame, and shows which pins are currently "active" (ie, receiving the driver signal), and also keeps track of all the pins that it's seen active alone (ie, not bridged to two different signals).

Sampling this manually was a bit painful from a test point, so I soldered on a physical pin to attach to, and this made it quite a bit easier. Next board revision, I should have test pins instead of test points; I don't need to save space that badly.

Final outcome: Almost perfect. There's _exactly_ two problems:

* `analog_g[5]` is bridged with `analog_g[6]`. I can live with this, since I ought to be able to get digital color out from the PPU2 test pins.
* `fifo_wr_n` is not connected. This *might* be on the FTDI side, but I think it's not -- sampling on the pad itself is pretty touchy, but got no response to the FPGA either.

This latter problem is pretty sucky, because I can't use the fast (~40MBps) synchronous fifo mode on the FTDI chip without it. I can probably come up with something to extract data faster than the UART (~11KBps), but I won't be able to collect data with the SNES chips close to full speed. As mentioned earlier (ie months ago), there's several workaround for that, so it's not the end of the world -- but it's still sucky.

I _might_ be able to work around this by soldering a bodge wire from one of the test points to the `fifo_wr_n` pin on the FTDI chip, and remapping to suit.  This is pretty dodgy, though, and might have too much signal propagation delay to sustain 60 MHz. I could steal the pad for `D7`, instead, which is physcially closer.  Have to think about this a bit.

It's probably worth building a second board at this point (with various lessons learned so far), and see if I can get the FPGA perfectly connected. Fortunately I just got another batch of parts (particularly FTDI chips, since I messed up the first one a bit), so that's easy enough to get started on. I'll probably solder the FPGA on first, if only so I don't melt the secondary power pins again.

Next boards ought to use ENIG finishing, which makes getting the FPGA on easier (better planarity of the pads).

Aside: I'll have a related problem trying to test the level shifter chips, but worse since several of those are unidirectional. I haven't figured out how to deal with this yet.
