# 2020-05-16

# Bringup phase 2 (continued)

FTDI chip is still dead; not sure why.  I tried connecting it to my laptop, and go nothing -- but now the half-lit `INIT` LED is off.

This might have to do with my incorrectly grounding the shield, but multimeter shows close to zero potential between them (which is fine, but might create noise -- it's a very large ground loop).

Disconnecting bench power from the board resets it, and `INIT` is dimly lit again.  Pin 49 `VREGOUT` reads 1.822V, which is fine -- but pin 64 shows 0V, which makes no sense as those are directly connected.

Curously, `C7`'s power side should be 1.8V, but is 0V.  Looking closely, it seems like ping 49 `VREGOUT` isn't actually soldered down -- it's bent slightly.  Let's try to fix that and see if it connects through.  If the core doesn't have power (which I've never observed it to), the output flip flops might come up in inconsistent states, and never get Power-on-reset'd.

This did not work; it's too hard to get in there with the soldering iron, and the pin is obviously not connected.

Two tries adding a bodge wire did not work -- still shorted to 3.3V.

A bit more finagling and I seem to have cleared the short, so the `VREGOUT` pin shows 1.822V.  All three `VCORE` pins also show 1.8V.  Progress!

Still doesn't show up on USB.

(break)

Pin 2 (clock) seems to not be connected properly -- the top of the pin doesn't show up, but th epad does.  If it push the two to contact, `DONE` lights up, so maybe I'm just seeing the initial state without the core running.  Fixed that (maybe) with soldering iron.

Test USB on computer again: Still nothing. Check the usb pins for connectivity again; seems to be connected properly.

Pin `USB_D+` is stuck at 3.3V, but the pad's at 0.  That's obviously wrong.

There's enough wrong here that I'm going to pull off the chip, and try this again.

### Second attempt

Screwed this up too -- again, too much solder paste. It's almost impossible to do this without a stencil: lesson learned.

Also I melted the J4 pinheader, since it's too close to the FTDI chip, and toasted the J12 header a bit (but it's still usable.  I removed J4 while it was hot, but that left the holes full of solder.  I'll ignore this for now, since I don't have a solder sucker, and just bridge them when I need the 1.1V and 2.5V rails working.

Powering up the board again works, fine, but connecting the 3.3V power header causes that funny squealing I heard before -- I assume this is the way the `ST1S10` respond to shorting the power rails, which means I've got a solder bridge somewhere again.  Curiously this disapates about 1.0W, and I can't tune the bench supply to shift into current-limited -- it doesn't have the granularity.

Checking with multimeter -- yes, there's a short between 3.3V and ground, somewhere.  Looks like it's a solder ball between pins 9 and 10.  I tried to get it out with solder wick, but I can't fit it between the pins.

As a precaution: Ring the FTDI chip with kapton tape, so I don't melt stuff again.

Here's another idea: strip a short length of 30 gauge bodge wire, and put it _behind_ the pins, add some flux, and hit it with hot air.  This might wick up the tiny solder ball, or at least break the bridge.  THis works -- but the chip got loose, and I had to bump it back into position.  Not sure about solder bridges now.

Checking with multimeter shows this seems to have worked -- at least for the 3.3V/ground bridge.  To check the rest, painstakingly:

Ground: Pins
* 1 ok
* 5 ok
* 10 ok
* 11 ok
* 13 ok
* 15 ok
* 25 ok
* 26 wrong: `FIFO_TXF`
* 35 ok
* 47 ok
* 51 ok

3.3V pins:
* 4 ok
* 9 ok
* (some weird blips on some pins 1-16)
* 19 wrong
* 20 ok
* 21 wrong
* 27-31 all bridged

Ok, try wire + flux + hot air again -- but this time tape the chip down.

Taping chip down was better, but it stil shifted a bit; might have messed up 1-16.  Still have bridges on some of 17-32, which I'll ignore for now.  Worst case I have to use a slower transport for the data.

Pins 33-48: No bridges
Pins 49-64: 53-54 bridged, which doesn't matter.

Bored of this now.  No fault betwee 3.3V, 1.8V, and ground; let's just power it up again.

Ok, current state:
* Both power LEDs on.
* 3.3V jumpers connected.
* D6 `INIT` dimly on (because I've accidentally created a voltage divider, oops).
* D5 `DONE` on.
* Others off.
* 1.8V rail measured at 1.797V (lower than the other chip, huh).
* Clock looks ok (via scope)

USB connection test: nothing.

Hooking scope up to EEPROM: This is easier if I have a way to reset the FTDI chip, but all I have is power.  So, hook that up with jumper wires to a breadboard with a button, which works fine.  FTDI chip starts reading after 5.5ms, and does so for 5.7ms.  [SDS00014]  So the chip is _definitely_ working, but it doesn't make usb connections.  Odd.  It's hard to get a capture of the actual data -- but just knowing that it's *there* is good.  So the question is: Why doesn't the USB side work?

Earlier unreliability issue seems to be gone, so that was likely a bad solder joint (or twenty).
