# 2020-05-30

## Bringup Phase 3: FPGA

Now that I can talk to the FPGA over SPI, and it appears to be working correctly, I can move on towards getting the bringup bitstream programmed.  All this does by default is tristate all the pins, and toggle the D7 and D8 LEDs, but it's enough to prove that I can program the FPGA.  I still need to write the boundary-scan image, which lets me check for pin connectivity and bridges on the FPGA (still in some doubt, since I can't x-ray the chip or anything).

I'd previously assumed that I could simply dump the entire FPGA bitstream into the device wholesale, but I'm not sure that's true.  Experimenting with the "Read ID", "Usercode" and "Program Usercode" operations seems to imply that they need to be sent as individual SPI transactions, toggling chip-select as typical for SPI.  If I don't, the remaining operations just return `0xffffffff`.

This slightly problematic, because I can't simply clock in the entire bitstream; I have to parse it to find the packet boundaries, and there's lots of room for error in that process.  I imagine that the "SPI Master" configuration mode doesn't work this way, because it can simply read out the whole bitstream at once -- but perhaps it has some opcode-based processor involved.  I know it's possible to make the bitstream jump to a different address -- so plausibly it reads 4 bytes at a time (opcode + 24-bit param) as separate transactions.  Since I'm not using "SPI Master" mode, it's not very relevant, but it's _super_ annoying that the sysCONFIG datasheet is underspecified.
