# 2020-04-29

Second SNES arrived today (`UN12291829`), and works as advertised: plays games, but no sound. Fine for my purposes.

Missing one of the case screws, curiously.  This (presumably earlier?) model
has a separate sound board, labelled `SHVC-SOUND`. Neat!  But not relevant to
this project.

Front panel is identical, except that the lower right corner silkscreen reads `06`, whereas the first one is `03`.

However, the big difference is that this is an older model:  The board itself is labelled `SHVC-CPU-01`, and has a totally different layout, with the video encoder chip closer to the outputs, and this seperate sound board caddy.  Maybe Nintendo subcontracted the early sound system, or maybe they weren't sure which sound layout they were going to go with.  Curious.

The biggest potential problem is that the PPU-2 chips is a `5C78-01`, not a `5C78-03`.  I don't know if these chips are different -- but I might want to be able to experiment with both.  Perhaps it's wise to build a carrier board that I can connect to the actual SPLA board, so I can swap chips easily.

The CPU is also `5A22-01`, where the first SNES I got was a `5A22-02`.  Ram chips are different (since they're generic): Sony `CXk58257M-12L`.  This board is "&copy;1990 Nintendo", whereas first SNES is "&copy;1995 Nintendo".  Bascially, the first SNES I opened up was a newer model.  However, they both ought to run the same games in the same way, and they both use the `BA6592F` video encoder chip, so the analog pins ought to behave in the same way.
