# 2020-03-05

## Peripheral bus details

Seems like (according to [random internet sources](https://wiki.superfamicom.org/memory-mapping))
the B-bus to both PPU chips specifically runs at 6-master-clocks per access
(~3.58MHz), and responds only to 0x21XX address; no addresses outside that are
on this bus. That makes the 8-bit address bus sensible. Curiously the
PPU-specific registers only go up to 0x213f, so the top two bits will be
effectively unused on the SPLA board; they're only needed by the APU or
expansion port. I'm not going to rely on this, though -- it's only two pins,
and I'm not that constrained.

However, a new wrinkle: if the address pins are out of the PPU's range (and
possibly at other times), the PPU chips may not drive the peripheral bus data
pins. This is hard to detect, because we'll read the floating value and get
unpredictable and inconsistent results.

A plausible solution to this is to enable a weak pullup or pulldown resistor,
and repeat the read for both cases -- if the bus is driving, that will dominate
the weak pull resistor, but in hi-Z mode, we'll read obviously different data.
Unfortunately, the ECP5 sysIO pins don't seem to support switching the pull
resistors at runtime, so we'd have to reconfigure the FPGA to make the second
read. That's still useful -- but kinda painful. I've considered wiring together
more than one pin, but this seems risky and ill-defined. Perhaps it's better to
do the slow-and-safe thing instead.

Come to think of it, I'm not even sure how to set up the ECP5 IO pins as
bidirectional. This seems to be possible according to the Lattic sysIO
documentation, but I'm not sure what other attributes can be modified at
runtime by the image. I'll need to figure out the ECP5's capabilities to solve
this properly.

## Miscellaneous details

I should probably work up a template datasheet to fill out for the PPUs,
including internal latches (what I know about, at least) and timing details.

The command protocol is probably byte-oriented, and has some simple internal
state machine -- I imagine that's more than enough to drive the board.
Probably I'll need to latch certain changes until the next vblank interval.

Also I apparently can't spell 'peripheral'.  Fixed in most places now.
