# 2020-05-22

I have fixed the FTDI chip completely!

Solder bridges on 0.5mm pin pitch chips are *really* hard to see -- even with a microscope, the bridges can be behind the pins, and there's barely a tiny specular highlight to show it.

So, I wrote a bit of code `bringup_ftdi` that drives each pins one at a time, in both directions (high and low), and reads all the pins to see if it works correctly. (Obviously this only works if the non-GPIO pins are all correctly soldered; otherwise the chip doesn't even come up.)  Results from the first run:

```
~/spla/software$ ./spla bringup_ftdi
         b_hi     b_lo     a_hi     a_lo
bit 00:  11101111 11111111 11111111 1111111G
bit 01:  11101111 11111111 11111111 111111G1
bit 02:  11101111 11111111 11111111 11111G11
bit 03:  11101111 11111111 11111111 1111H111
bit 04:  11101111 11111111 11111111 111H1111
bit 05:  11101111 11111111 11111111 11G11111
bit 06:  11101111 11111111 11111111 1G111111
bit 07:  11101111 11111111 11111111 G1111111
bit 08:  11101111 11111111 1111111G 11111111
bit 09:  11101111 11111111 111111G1 11111111
bit 10:  11101111 11111111 1111KG11 11111111
bit 11:  11101111 11111111 1111GK11 11111111
bit 12:  11101111 11111111 111G1111 11111111
bit 13:  11101111 11111111 11H11111 11111111
bit 14:  11101111 11111111 1G111111 11111111
bit 15:  11101111 11111111 G1111111 11111111
bit 16:  11101111 1111111G 11111111 11111111
bit 17:  11101111 111111G1 11111111 11111111
bit 18:  11101111 11111G11 11111111 11111111
bit 19:  11101111 1111G111 11111111 11111111
bit 20:  11101111 111G1111 11111111 11111111
bit 21:  11101111 11G11111 11111111 11111111
bit 22:  11101111 1G111111 11111111 11111111
bit 23:  11101111 G1111111 11111111 11111111
bit 24:  1110111G 11111111 11111111 11111111
bit 25:  111011G1 11111111 11111111 11111111
bit 26:  11101G11 11111111 11111111 11111111
bit 27:  1110G111 11111111 11111111 11111111
bit 28:  111G1111 11111111 11111111 11111111
bit 29:  11H01111 11111111 11111111 11111111
bit 30:  1G101111 11111111 11111111 11111111
bit 31:  G1101111 11111111 11111111 11111111
         b_hi     b_lo     a_hi     a_lo
pin      55555554 44444433 33332222 22221111
         98754328 54331098 43209876 43219876
Errors: 6
FAIL
```

Yeah, so pretty broken right now.

In this display, `0` and `1` mean that un-driven pins float to that state (approximately).  In this test, any undriven pin ought to keep the same state.  This isn't actually guaranteed, because capacitive effects can drive nearby pins -- but in this case it seems not to happen.  `G` is a "good" pin -- goes high when driven high, goes low when driven low.  If a pin is shorted to ground, it will show here as `L`, or if shorted to power, `H`.  These pins are stuck, and generally are bridged to an adjacent power or ground pin.  IO Pins bridged together will toggle when the single driven pin changes; this is shows as `K` (as in pin 10/11 above).

(Other outputs might be `I` if the driving is backwards, or `J` if an adjacent pin is driven backwards.  I can't imagine how this would happend, but it's counted as an error for completeness.)

This whole technique only works because the FTDI chip seems to let you sample the actual output, not the state of the driver -- different IO pads could handle that differently, or simply not let you read and drive at the same time.  This also doesn't check for disconnected pins, where the driver senses the output correctly, but the pin and pad aren't connected (a later problem to check for, prior to FPGA installation).

To fix all these, my technique was to cut a ~1cm single-use bit of 30-gauge wire, and stick in inbetween the bridged pins, drop a bit of flux in, and hold the soldering iron against it for 3-5 seconds.  This wicks enough of the bridge onto the wire to clear it -- proper solder wick was too big to get in to the bridge.  Re-testing cleared all the bridges, so we should be good to go.

Next, I'll need to verify that all the FTDI GPIOs are connected to the right FPGA pads, then get the FPGA installed.  Since I've toasted the board a bit too much, I'll need to make sure I can get those pads clear; it might be wise to re-tin the pads before attempting to get the FPGA installed.
