# 2020-05-17

Curiously the chip seems to be unstable again -- when applying power to the board, `DONE` LED flashes on and off erratically for ~5 seconds, the stays lit.  It also seems to crash when I fool with the jumpers, so it seems like I've got a flaky joint somewhere...

Actually this odd behavior is stable -- as soon as power's applied (modulo glitchyness from the jumpers), the `DONE` LED flashes for a few seconds, then goes solid.  This might be caused by some software stuff on my laptop.

`./spla ftdi_list_devices` errors out with `libusb_get_string_descriptor_ascii() failed`.  Strange.  I'll rework the initialization code to use `ftdi_usb_open`, and just pick the first.  Later I plan to set this up so it scans all the relevant devices, and makes sure there's exactly one that matches.

Another hiccup: `ftdi_set_interface` has to be called before opening the USB device.  That seems dumb, and would imply you can't use both channels at once.  Possibly I can open both channels in two different FTDI contexts, but for now re-opening the context to switch is ok.  It does seem to cause a blip on the outputs, though...

Some substantial rework of the software is necessary.

One last oddity: `D3` is very dimly lit; it's only getting 1.752V instead of 3.3V.  The 1.8V rail is 1.787V, so that's probably not shorted -- and it turns on and off correctly.  Supplying 3.3V to the LED makes it light up properly, so the LED and resistor are fine.  There's nothing nearby that could voltage-divide easily.
