# 2020-02-29

I've now made a first attempt at a PCB layout excersize, and it's gone badly!
Which is what I'd expected, since I haven't got anything set up correctly for
the layout yet, and I don't have a clue what I'm doing.

The Pcbnew interface is a little quirky, which I'll get used to. However, the
thing I most expected to be wrong, is: all the FPGA signals are crossing
everywhere. This shouldn't be too hard to untangle, but my idea for having the
level shifters be grouped by concept turns out to be more-or-less useless. The
ones that coincidentally have pins in the same order as the actual chips seem
ok, though. A bit more judicious rearrangement 

I can also simplify the layout by hardwiring all the level shifter enables to
on, and also save some FPGA pins at the same time. I don't know what I'll do
with them, though.

Layout-wise, I'd imagined having `FPGA -> Shifters -> PPU -> VRAM` -- but in
retrospect, it might make more sense to have `Shifters -> VRAM -> PPU` -- given
how dense the signaling is. Also, the VRAM bus is directly paired between the
two chips, which implies that it's pretty high speed -- perhaps even the full
21.47727MHz.

Also, should the analog bits be near to the power, or far away?  Not sure, but
at least they ought to have a "quieter" ground plane than the one near all the
switching chips. Plausibly I could create semi-divided power/ground plane, or
even a separate 3.3V power domain. Interesting thought.

This still needs a *lot* of work. For now, I've got a better idea of how to
route things, and I need to rearrange the level shifters a lot.
