# 2020-02-23

I now have a symbol for the FPGA, which was tedious but only took a few hours.
I've also found a decent CMOS oscillator (`O252012MEDH4MI`), which is mostly
decent because it's in JLCPCB-SMT already, and KiCad already has a (probably?)
compatible footprint for it.

In other news, I found [a
presentation](http://meseec.ce.rit.edu/551-projects/fall2014/3-1.pdf) which
says that the PPU only has a 15-bit RGB color space. If so, I can easily drop
the ADCs to 8-bit, which is cheaper and takes less pins. I still need to pick
out the right ADC. This also says the supported resolutions are: 256x244,
512x224, 256x239, 512x239, 512x478. Sounds plausible, but it does mean I
*definitely* need a >21.4MHz ADC. (This might also mean I can technically fit
in a smaller package -- but the HX8K doesn't have enough block ram, and
anything that does is in a BGA anyhow.)

I've not been able to find out for sure what package footprint the SNES PPU
chips will need -- it's a QFP-100, but in a rectangular arrangement (20x30).
Worst case, I'll have to just measure them and draw my own footprint. Sigh.

For the video RAM chips; I've found [an image on
wikipedia](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/af/SHVC-CPU-01_F_01.jpg)
that's sufficiently high-resolution to read the SRAM serial number: MOSEL
`MS62256CL-10FC`. This is, as expected, a 32kx8 CMOS static RAM. However, the
datasheet says it only has a 100ns access time -- max 10MHz or so, which
implies that the PPU isn't using the 21.47727 MHz clock directly (at least for
memory access). That reduces my effective data throughput a bunch, since the
VRAM signals can't go that fast, and will be more easily compressible.
Plausibly they're running on a 3.58MHz clock instead.

I've seen a few different mainboard layouts, though -- not sure what might have
changed between revisions. It's possible that a different third-party SRAM chip
changed the layout, so I might have to rearrange things once I have a real SNES
to match up with. More generally, this might suck if I can't get consistent
VRAM chips to steal. That might make it worth looking into using the internal
block ram for VRAM -- doesn't cost me any pins, but does take a lot of space.
Otherwise, I can probably find a modern SRAM chip that will work.

It's also mildly worrisome to me that I might end up accidentally buying a
bunch of SNES 1-Chip versions: It's hard to tell the different without opening
the case, and those are incompatible with my design, since you can't tap the
internal signals. I can try to work around this by looking specifically for
really old SNES's, but that's no guarantee.
