# 2020-08-16

I've ordered new boards and parts, with the two major mistakes fixed:

* The SNES PPU layout is now 0.65mm pin pitch, and lines up with actual chips now.  Honestly, this is the only thing I actually _had_ to change, and the rest of this is just conveniences.
* I've un-grounded the USB shield pin, which was the proximate cause of the boards not enumerating on the USB bus.  No idea why this was happening, still.

Many other minor changes, mostly from TODO:

* Added another two general-purpose LEDs to the FPGA.  The pins for this I got from consolidating the ADC output-enable lines (since I don't need separate ones).  I also renamed the LEDS to `A`, `B`, `C`, `D`, since it's weird having `D7` and `D8`.
* Pinswapped the entire FPGA to move the test points to the south end of the board.
* Added a test point and 0-ohm resistor to the FTDI 1.8V regulator, since I had trouble with this before.
* Add a pair of buffer chips to the `INIT` and `DONE` pins, since the FPGA can't drive hardly any current to them and the voltage collapses.  These are easy to bypass, if I've misdiagnosed the issue.  I've also inverted the sense of `INIT`, since it's "active-low": "low" is "lit LED".  This may or may not be confusing.
* Added a generic button (pulled down, press to pull up), with a 1ms RC debounce.  This might be useful to trigger the FPGA to do stuff; I don't have specific plans yet.  This is normally disconnected, but jumperable to `EXTRA3`.
* Removed the 1.1V/2.5V jumper pins, because they're too close the FPGA and I keep melting the plastic.  I've never really needed them anyways; I can cut off power via the main jumper bank, and the LDOs are pretty solid anyhow.
* Cleaned up the silkscreen in places where I'd placed the references badly.
* Removed the electrolytic capacitors, which are almost certainly unnecessary.  The upstream power supply has some anyhow, and that's enough.
* Compacted the board slightly (left side pulled in by 13mm).  I'd like to waste less space, but it's not really worth the cost savings.
* Added a discrete power switch.  I've belatedly noticed that this part is rated for 6V, but I'll be putting 12V through it.  This might be fine, but if not, I can leave it out and bodge a wire across the pads.
* Corrected FTDI `REF` resistor to be 12k&#x2126; 1%, rather than 12k&#x2126; 5%.  Oops.
* Removed a bunch of 0&#x2126; resistors I don't expect to use (particularly in the power system).
* Added a test point to the 12MHz oscillator, which I'd wanted previously.
* Renumbered most of the components that have similar values to have similar reference numbers (ie, all 10k%#2126; resistors are sequential).  I think this might be convenient for manufacturing, but it spreads the numbers out all over the board, so I'm not sure.
* Seperated the `PPU1` `TST` 0&#x2126; resistors, in case I want to bodge them.
* Seperated the `PPU2` `AVCC` power input, in case I want to drive that separately for some reason.
* Changed USB cables to ~1m long ones, since the dinky 30cm ones are annoyingly short.
* Changed hex standoffs from 3.5cm to 2.0cm, which is more reasonable.

Also, on the manufacturing side, I've changed a few options:

* I've ordered boards with ENIG finishing this time, which is (hypothetically) easier for BGAs that require good surface planarity.  This probably won't be a big difference for me, but it's not very expensive.  If it saves me from even a single mis-soldered FPGA, it's made back the cost.
* I've also ordered stencils this time, and I'll try assembling the entire board at once.  This might be a bit tricky with parts on both sides, so I'll probably keep the preheater low (below the melting point of the solder) and do the back side first, where there's less parts to worry about.  Not sure if I'll do the analog section now, or leave it alone until I've gotten further in bringup.
* I'm switching to lead-free solder and solder paste, as an experiment: this might be disasterous, but it prevents me from worrying about lead cleanup.  If its too much trouble I can switch back to leaded easily enough.

While I'm waiting, I can still get some work done with the old `b001` board -- the FPGA is usable, even if I can't stick PPUs on it.

I'll still need to get a few more SNES's to cannabilize, though...
