# 2020-02-25

A note on NTSC: according to [random websites on the internet](https://www.maximintegrated.com/en/design/technical-documents/tutorials/1/1184.html) the standard component video signal seems to got from 0V (block) to 0.714V (maximum luminance), with a *negative* 0.286V sync pulse. The `PPU-2` chip almost certainly doesn't output the negative voltage, but I'd also (naively) expect it to output zero to 5V.

The BA6892F datasheet implies (in Japanese, which I'm not remotely able to read) that the `AR` / `AG` / `AB` signals are max 0.7V, which matches that.

Here's an even weirder fact: the `PPU-2` outputs go through a pair of
transistors (a Darlignton pair?) as an amplifier. The first is a
pre-amplifier, and has a 10k resistor to power, so the current through it isn't
large (and incidentally is inverted I think). However, the second stage has
two different sources and voltage dividers. The Component-out side has 180 ohm
over 130 ohm, a divider ratio of (130 / (130 + 180) ==) 0.419, but the
`BA6892F` (video encoder chip) has 120 over 300, a divider ratio of (300 / (300
+ 120) ==) 0.714 -- that can't be just a coincidence, but the VCC here is 5V,
so we don't end up with 0.714; it's actually (5 * 0.714 == ) 3.57V. Plausibly
the encoder chip only cares about the ratio to VCC, but that's just as weird.
Also the Component-out signals would have a different voltage. Strange.

On the other hand, the `BA6592F` datasheet also says that the supply voltage is
7.0V -- so maybe there's more weird going on.

I'll just have to stick a scope on a working SNES and find out.
